1. Bigger meeting venue needed next year
WARREN BUFFETT: Put this over here.

CHARLIE MUNGER:

WARREN BUFFETT: Am I live yet? Yeah.

Morning.

AUDIENCE: Morning.

WARREN BUFFETT: We were a little worried today because we weren’t sure from the reservations whether we can handle everybody, but it looks to me like there may be a couple seats left up there.

But I think next year, we’re going to have to find a different spot because it looks to me like we’re up about 600 this year from last year, and to be on the safe side we will seek out a larger spot.

Now, there are certain implications to that because, as some of the more experienced of you know, a few years ago we were holding this meeting at the Joslyn Museum, which is a temple of culture. (Laughter)

And we’ve now, of course, moved to an old vaudeville theater. And the only place in town that can hold us next year, I think, is the Ak-Sar-Ben Coliseum where they have keno and racetracks. (Laughter)

We are sliding down the cultural chain — (laughter) — just as Charlie predicted years ago. He saw all this coming. (Laughter)

2. Buffett loses “Miss Congeniality” title to Munger
WARREN BUFFETT: Charlie — I have some rather distressing news to report. There are always a few people that vote against everyone on the slate for directors and there’s maybe a dozen or so people do that. And then there are others that single shot it, and they pick out people to vote against.

And, this will come as news to Charlie, I haven’t told him yet. But he is the only one among our candidates for directors that received no negative votes this year. (Applause).

Hold it — hold it. No need to applaud.

I tell you, when you lose out the title of Miss Congeniality to Charlie, you know you’re in trouble. (Laughter)

3. Meeting timetable
WARREN BUFFETT: Now, I’d like to tell you a little bit how we’ll run this. We will have the business meeting in a hurry with the cooperation of all of you, and then we will introduce our managers who are here, and then we will have a Q&A period.

We will run that until 12 o’clock, at which point we’ll break, and then at 12:15, if the hardcore want to stick around, we will have another hour or so until about 1:15 of questions.

So, you’re free to leave, of course, any time and I’ve pointed out in the past that it’s much better form if you leave while Charlie is talking rather than when I’m talking, but — (Laughter)

Feel free anytime, but you can — if you’re panicked and you’re worried about being conspicuous by leaving, you will be able to leave at noon.

We will have buses out front that will take you to the hotels or the airport or to any place in town in which we have a commercial interest. (Laughter)

We encourage you staying around on that basis.

4. Berkshire directors introduced
WARREN BUFFETT: Let’s have the — let’s get the business of the meeting out of the way. Then we can get on to more interesting things.

I will first introduce the Berkshire Hathaway directors that are present in addition to myself and —

First of all, there’s Charlie, who is the vice chairman of Berkshire, and if the rest of you will stand.

We have Susan T. Buffett, Howard Buffett, Malcolm Chase III, and Walter Scott Jr. And that’s it. (Applause)

5. Meeting quorum
WARREN BUFFETT: Also with us today are partners in the firm of Deloitte and Touche, our auditors, Mr. Ron Burgess and Mr. Craig Christiansen (PH).

They are available to respond to appropriate questions you might have concerning their firm’s audit of the accounts of Berkshire.

Mr. Forrest Krutter, secretary of Berkshire. He will make a written record of the proceedings.

Mr. Robert M. Fitzsimmons has been appointed inspector of election at this meeting. He will certify to the count of votes cast in the election for directors.

The named proxy holders for this meeting are Walter Scott Jr. and Marc D. Hamburg.

Proxy cards have been returned through last Friday representing 1,035,680 Berkshire shares to be voted by the proxy holders as indicated on the cards. That number of shares represents a quorum and we will therefore directly proceed with the meeting.

We will conduct the business of the meeting and then adjourn to the formal meeting — and then adjourn the formal meeting. After that, we will entertain questions that you might have.

First order of business will be a reading of the minutes of the last meeting of shareholders.

I recognize Mr. Walter Scott Jr. who will place a motion before the meeting.

WALTER SCOTT: I move that the reading of the minutes of the last meeting of the shareholders be dispensed with.

WARREN BUFFETT: Do I hear a second?

VOICES: Seconded.

Motion has been moved and seconded. Are there any comments or questions? Hearing none, we will vote on the motion by voice vote. (Laughter)

All those in favor say aye.

VOICES: Aye.

WARREN BUFFETT: Opposed? The motion is carried and it’s a vote.

Does the secretary have a report of the number of Berkshire shares outstanding entitled to vote and represented at the meeting?

FORREST KRUTTER: Yes, I do. As indicated in the proxy statement that accompanied the notice of this meeting that was sent by first class mail to all shareholders of record on March 8, 1994, being the record date for this meeting, there were 1,177,750 shares of Berkshire common stock outstanding, with each share entitled to one vote on motions considered at the meeting. Of that number, 1,035,680 shares are represented at this meeting by proxies returned through last Friday.

6. Directors elected
WARREN BUFFETT: Thank you. We will proceed to elect directors.

If a shareholder is present who wishes to withdraw a proxy previously sent in and vote in person, he or she may do so.

Also, if any shareholder that’s present has not turned in a proxy and desires a ballot in order to vote in person, you may do so.

If you wish to do this, please identify yourself to meeting officials in the aisles who will furnish a ballot to you.

Would those persons desiring ballots please identify themselves so that we may distribute them? Just raise your hand.

I now recognize Mr. Walter Scott Jr. to place a motion before the meeting with respect to election of directors.

WALTER SCOTT: I move that Warren Buffett, Susan Buffett, Howard Buffett, Malcolm Chase, Charles Munger, and Walter Scott be elected as directors.

WARREN BUFFETT: Is there a second?

VOICE: Seconded.

WARREN BUFFETT: It’s been moved and seconded that Warren E. Buffett, Susan T. Buffett, Howard G. Buffett, Malcolm G. Chase III, Charles T. Munger, and Walter Scott Jr. be elected as directors.

Are there any other nominations? Is there any discussion? Motions and nominations are ready to be acted upon.

If there are any shareholders voting in person, they should now mark their ballots and allow the ballots to be delivered to the inspector of elections.

Seeing none, will the proxy holders please also submit to the inspector of elections the ballot voting the proxies in accordance with the instructions they have received.

Mr. Fitzsimmons, when you’re ready you may give your report.

ROBERT FITZSIMMONS: My report is ready. The ballot of the proxy holders received through last Friday cast not less than a 1,035,407 votes for each nominee.

That number far exceeds a majority of the number of all shares outstanding and a more precise count cannot change the results of the election.

However, the certification required by Delaware law regarding the precise count of the votes, including the votes cast in person at this meeting, will be given to the secretary to be placed with the minutes of this meeting.

WARREN BUFFETT: Thank you, Mr. Fitzsimmons.

Warren E. Buffett, Susan T. Buffett, Howard G. Buffett, Malcolm G. Chase III, Charles T. Munger, and Walter Scott Jr. have been elected as directors. (Applause)

7. Formal meeting adjourns
WARREN BUFFETT: Does anyone have any further business to come before this meeting before we adjourn?

If not, I recognize Mr. Walter Scott Jr. to place a motion before the meeting.

WALTER SCOTT: I move the meeting be adjourned.

WARREN BUFFETT: Second?

VOICES: Seconded.

The motion to adjourn has been made and seconded. We will vote by voice. Is there any discussion? If not, all in favor say aye?

VOICES: Aye

WARREN BUFFETT: Opposed say no, the meeting is adjourned. (Laughter)

It’s democracy in Middle America. (Laughter)

8. Berkshire managers introduced
WARREN BUFFETT: Now, I’d like to introduce some of the people that make this place work to you. And if you would hold your applause until the end because there are quite a number of our managers here.

I’m not sure which ones for sure are here, some of them may be out tending the store as well.

But, first of all, from Nebraska Furniture Mart, Louie, Ron, and Irv Blumkin. I’m not sure who’s here, but would you stand please, any of the Blumkins that are present?

OK, we’ve — looks like Irv. I can’t quite see it.

From Borsheims, is Susan Jacques here? Susan? There she is. Susan had a record day yesterday. She just — (applause) — Susan became CEO just a few months ago and she’s turning in records already. Keep it up. (Laughter)

And from Central States Indemnity, we have the Kizers. I’m not sure which ones are here, but there’s Bill Sr., Bill Jr., John, and Dick.

Kizers, stand up. I think I can see him — John.

Don Wurster from National Indemnity.

Rod Eldred from the Homestate Companies.

Brad Kinstler from Cypress, our worker’s comp company.

Ajit Jain, the big ticket writer in the East.

And Mike Goldberg, who runs our real estate finance group and also generally oversees the insurance group. Mike.

Gary Heldman from Fechheimers.

Chuck Huggins from See’s, the candy man.

Stan Lipsey from the Buffalo News.

Chuck’s been with us, incidentally, twenty-odd years. Stan’s been working with me for well over 25 years.

Frank Rooney and Jim Issler from H.H. Brown.

Dave Hillstrom from Precision Steel.

Ralph Schey from Scott Fetzer.

Peter Lunder, who is with our newest acquisition, Dexter Shoe. And Harold Alfond, his partner, couldn’t be with us because his wife is ill.

And finally, the manager that’s been with Charlie and me the longest, Harry Bottle from K&W. Harry, you here? There’s Harry.

Harry saved our bacon back in 19 — what? — 62 or so, when in some mad moment I went into the windmill business. And Harry got me out of it. (Laughter)

That’s our group of managers and I appreciate it if you give them a hand. (Applause)

9. Midwest Express adding flights to Omaha
WARREN BUFFETT: I have one piece of good news about next year for you.

In addition to moving to larger quarters, they’re going to add nonstop air service from New York, Washington, and Los Angeles here in the next few months, Midwest Express.

So, I hope they do very well with it and I hope that makes it easier for you to get into town.

10. Q&A logistics
WARREN BUFFETT: Now, in this — for the next two hours and 15 minutes or so, we’ll have a session where we will take questions.

We have seven zones, three on the main floor. We’ll go start over there with zone one and work across.

On the main floor, if you’ll raise your hand, the person who is handling the mic will pass it to you and we’ll try to not repeat any individual in any one zone till everyone in that zone has had a chance to ask one question. So, after you’ve been on once, let other people get a shot.

When we move up to the loge, we have one person there and in the case — and then we have three in the balcony, which is essentially full now.

And we would, up there, we would appreciate it if you would you leave your seat and go to the person with the mic. It’ll be a little easier in both the loge and the balcony to handle it that way.

And if you’ll go a little ahead of time, that way if there’s a line of two or three you can you can line up for questions in both the loge and balcony.

So, whatever you’d care to ask. If you want an optimistic answer you’ll, of course, direct your question to Charlie. If you’d like a little more realism you’ll come to me and — (laughter).

11. Derivatives: dangerous combination of “ignorance and borrowed money”
WARREN BUFFETT: Let’s start over in zone 1.

Sometimes we can’t see too well from up here, but —

In fact, I can’t even see the monitor right now, but do we have one over there?

And if you’ll identify yourself by name and your hometown, we’d appreciate it.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: My name is Michael Mullen (PH) from Omaha.

Would you comment on the use of derivatives? I noticed that Dell computer stock was off 2 1/2 points Friday with the loss of derivatives.

WARREN BUFFETT: Question is about derivatives. We have in this room the author of the best thing you can read on that. There was an article in Fortune about a month ago or so by Carol Loomis on derivatives, and far and away it’s the best article that has been written.

We also have some people in the room that do business in derivatives from Salomon.

And it’s a very broad subject. It — as we said last year, I think someone asked what might be the big financial story of the ’90s and we said we obviously don’t know, but that if we had to pick a topic that it could well be derivatives because they lend themselves to the use of unusual amounts of leverage and they’re sometimes not completely understood by the people involved.

And any time you combine ignorance and borrowed money — (laughter) — you can get some pretty interesting consequences. (Laughter)

Particularly when the numbers get vague. And you’ve seen that, of course, recently with the recent Procter and Gamble announcement.

Now, I don’t know the details of the P&G derivatives, but I understand, at least from press reports, that what started out as interest rate swaps ended up with P&G writing puts on large quantities of U.S. and, I think, one other country’s bonds. And any time you go from selling soap to writing puts on bonds, you’ve made a big jump. (Laughter)

And it — the ability to borrow enormous amounts of money combined with a chance to get either very rich or very poor very quickly, has historically been a recipe for trouble at some point.

Derivatives are not going to go away. They serve useful purposes and all that, but I’m just saying that it has that potential. We’ve seen a little bit of that.

I can’t think of anything that we’ve done that would — can you think of anything we do that approaches derivatives, Charlie? Directly?

CHARLIE MUNGER: No. (Laughter)

WARREN BUFFETT: I may have to cut him off if he talks too long. (Laughter)

Is there anything you would like to add to your already extensive remarks? (Laughter)

CHARLIE MUNGER: No. (Laughter)

WARREN BUFFETT: OK.

12. Berkshire participated in Cap Cities stock buyback
WARREN BUFFETT: In that case we’ll go to zone 2. (Laughter)

AUDIENCE MEMBER: My name is Hugh Stevenson (PH). I’m a shareholder from Atlanta.

My question involves the company’s investment in the stock of Cap Cities. It’s been my understanding in the past that that was regarded as one of the four, quote unquote, “permanent” holdings of the company.

So I was a little bit confused by the disposition of one million shares. Could you clarify that? Was my previous misunderstanding — was my previous understanding incorrect? Or has there been some change or is there a third possibility?

WARREN BUFFETT: Well, we have classified the Washington Post Company and Cap Cities and GEICO and Coke in the category of permanent holdings. And —

But in the case of three of those four, The Washington Post Company, I don’t know, maybe seven or eight years ago, GEICO some years back, and now Cap Cities, we have participated in tenders where the company has repurchased shares.

Now the first two, the Post and GEICO, we participated proportionally. That was not feasible, and incidentally, not as attractive taxwise anymore.

The 1968 Tax Act changed the desirability of proportional redemptions of shares, from our standpoint. That point has been missed by a lot of journalists in commenting on it, but it just so happens that the commentary that has been written has been obsolete, in some cases, by six or seven years.

But, we did participate in the Cap Cities tender offer, just as we did in the Post and GEICO.

We still are, by far, the largest shareholder of Cap Cities. We think it’s a superbly run operation in a business that looks a little tougher than it did 15 years ago, but looks a little bit better than it did 15 months ago.

Charlie, you have anything?

CHARLIE MUNGER: Uh, no. (Laughter)

WARREN BUFFETT: He’s thinking it over now though before — (Laughter)

13. Unlikely we’d buy company with no current cash flow
WARREN BUFFETT: Zone 3.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Good morning. My name is Howard Bask (PH) and I’m from Kansas City. And I’ve got a theoretical value question for you.

If you were to buy a business and you bought it at its intrinsic value, what’s the minimum after-tax free cash flow yield you’d need to get?

WARREN BUFFETT: Well, your question is if we were buying all of a business and we’re buying at what we thought was intrinsic value, what was the minimum —

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Correct.

WARREN BUFFETT: — present earning power or what the present — the minimum discount rate of future streams?

AUDIENCE MEMBER: No, what’s the minimum current after-tax free cash flow yield you’d…

WARREN BUFFETT: We could conceivably buy a business — I don’t think we would be likely to — but we could we could conceivably buy a business that had no current after-tax cash flow. But, we would have to think it had a tremendous future.

But we would not find — obviously the current figures, particularly in the kind of businesses we buy, tend to be representative, we think, of what’s going to happen in the future.

But that would not necessarily have to be the case. You can argue, for example, in buying stocks, we bought GEICO at a time when it was losing significant money. We didn’t expect it to continue to lose significant money.

But if we think the present value of the future earning power is attractive enough compared to the purchase price, we would not be overwhelmed by what the first year’s figure would be.

Charlie, you want to add to that?

CHARLIE MUNGER: Yeah. We don’t care what we report in the first year or two of — after buying anything.

AUDIENCE MEMBER OFF MIC: (INAUDIBLE) on average over the years (INAUDIBLE).

WARREN BUFFETT: Well, I would say that in a world of 7 percent long-term bond rates that we would certainly want to think we were discounting future after-tax streams of cash at at least a 10 percent rate.

But that will depend on the certainty we feel about the business. The more certain we feel about a business, the closer we are willing to play it.

We have to feel pretty certain about any business before we’re even interested at all. But there are still degrees of certainty, and —

If we thought we were getting a stream of cash over the next 30 years that we felt extremely certain about, we would use a discount rate that would be somewhat less than if it was one where we thought we might get some surprises in five or 10 years — possibility existed. Charlie?

CHARLIE MUNGER: Nothing to add.

14. Insurance business intrinsic value is well above book value
WARREN BUFFETT: OK. Zone 4.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Maurus Spence from Omaha, Nebraska.

You’ve made comments on several occasions about the intrinsic business value of the insurance operations. And in this year’s report you state that the insurance business possesses an intrinsic value that exceeds book value by a large amount, larger, in fact, than is the case at any Berkshire — other Berkshire business.

I was wondering if you would explain in greater detail why you believe that to be true.

WARREN BUFFETT: Well, I — it’s very hard to quantify, as we’ve said many times in the report. But, I think that it’s clear that even taking fairly pessimistic assumptions, that the excess of intrinsic value over carrying value is higher, by some margin, for the insurance business.

And I think that the table in the report that shows you what our cost to float has been over the years, and also what the trend of float has been over the years, would, unless you thought that table had no validity for the future, I think that that table would tend to the point you in the direction of saying the insurance business does have a very significant excess of intrinsic value over carrying value.

Very hard number to put something on. But — and you don’t want to extrapolate that table out. But I think that table shows that we started with maybe 20 million of float and that we’re up to something close to three billion of float. And that that float has come to us at a cost that’s extremely attractive, on average, over the years.

And just to pick an example, last year, when we actually had an underwriting profit, the value of that float was something over $200 million. And that figure was a lot bigger than it was 10 years ago or 20 years ago.

So that’s — that is a stream — last year was unusually favorable, but that is a — that’s a very significant stream of earnings, and it’s one we feel we have reasonably good prospects in. So we feel very good about the insurance business.

15. Why Berkshire doesn’t split its stock
WARREN BUFFETT: OK. Zone 5?

AUDIENCE MEMBER: My name is Cy Rademacher (PH) from Omaha.

Is there any point at which your stock would rise to the point where you might split the stock?

WARREN BUFFETT: Surprise, surprise. (Laughter)

I think I’ll let Charlie answer that this year. (Laughs)

He’s so popular with the shareholders that I can afford to let him take the tough questions. (Laughter)

CHARLIE MUNGER: I think the answer is no. (Laughter and applause)

I think the idea of carving ownerships in an enterprise into little, tiny $20 pieces is almost insane. And it’s quite inefficient to service a $20 account and I don’t see why there shouldn’t be a minimum as a condition of joining some enterprise. Certainly we’d all feel that way if we were organizing a private enterprise.

WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah, we would not carve it up in $20 units.

We find it very — it’s interesting because every company finds a way to fill up its common shareholder list. And you can start with the As and work through to the Zs and you’ll — every company in the New York Stock Exchange, one way or another, has attracted some constituency of shareholders.

And frankly, we can’t imagine a better constituency than is in this room. I mean, we have — we don’t think we can improve on this group, and we followed certain policies that we think attracted certain types of shareholders and actually pushed away others.

And that is part of our eugenics program here at Berkshire. (Laughter)

CHARLIE MUNGER: Yeah, just look around this room and as you mingle with one another. This is a very outstanding group of people. And why would anybody want a different kind of a group?

WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah, if we cause — if we follow some policies that cause a whole bunch of people to buy Berkshire for the wrong reason, the only way they can buy it is to replace somebody in this room, or in this larger metaphorical room, of shareholders that we have.

So someone in one of these seats gets up and somebody else walks in. The question is do we have a better audience?

I don’t think so. So I think that — I think Charlie said it very well.

16. Buffett is keeping his private jet
WARREN BUFFETT: Zone 6.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Mr. Buffett, my name is Rob Na (PH) and I’m from Omaha, Nebraska.

My question is, given the recent announcement of Midwest Express and their nonstop jet service between East and West Coasts, will this cut down on your use of “The Indefensible?” (Laughter)

And will you use more commercial air travel?

WARREN BUFFETT: This is a question planted by Charlie. (Laughter)

I think you should know, I take it to the drugstore at the moment, and I — (Laughter)

No, it’s just a question when I start sleeping in it at the hangar.

Nothing will cut back on “The Indefensible.” It’s being painted right now, but I told them to make it last a long time.

Charlie, though, was pointing out the merits of other kinds of transportation last night at the meeting of our managers. He might want to repeat those here.

CHARLIE MUNGER: Well, I just pointed out that the back of the plane arrived at the same time as the front of the plane, invariably. (Laughter)

WARREN BUFFETT: He’s even more of an authority on buses, incidentally, if anybody has his — (Laughter)

17. Buffett’s next goal in life
WARREN BUFFETT: Zone 7.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Mr. Buffett, my name’s Allan Maxwell from Omaha. I’ve got two questions.

What is your next goal in life now that you’re the richest man in the country?

WARREN BUFFETT: That’s easy. It’s to be the oldest man in the country. (Laughter and applause)

18. “Two yardsticks” for judging management
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Secondly, you talk about good management with corporations and that you try and buy companies with good management.

I feel that I have about as much chance of meeting good managers, other than yourself, as I do bringing Richard Nixon back to life.

How do I, as an average investor, find out what good management is?

WARREN BUFFETT: Well, I think you judge management by two yardsticks.

One is how well they run the business and I think you can learn a lot about that by reading about both what they’ve accomplished and what their competitors have accomplished, and seeing how they have allocated capital over time.

You have to have some understanding of the hand they were dealt when they themselves got a chance to play the hand.

But, if you understand something about the business they’re in — and you can’t understand it in every business, but you can find industries or companies where you can understand it — then you simply want to look at how well they have been doing in playing the hand, essentially, that’s been dealt with them.

And then the second thing you want to figure out is how well that they treat their owners. And I think you can get a handle on that, oftentimes. A lot of times you can’t. I mean it — they’re many companies that obviously fall in — somewhere — in that 20th to 80th percentile and it’s a little hard to pick out where they do fall.

But, I think you can usually figure out — I mean, it’s not hard to figure out that, say, Bill Gates, or Tom Murphy, or Don Keough, or people like that, are really outstanding managers. And it’s not hard to figure out who they’re working for.

And I can give you some cases on the other end of the spectrum, too.

It’s interesting how often the ones that, in my view, are the poor managers also turn out to be the ones that really don’t think that much about the shareholders, too. The two often go hand in hand.

But, I think reading of reports — reading of competitors’ reports — I think you’ll get a fix on that in some cases. You don’t have to — you know, you don’t have to make a hundred correct judgments in this business or 50 correct judgments. You only have to make a few. And that’s all we try to do.

And, generally speaking, the conclusions I’ve come to about managers have really come about the same way you can make yours. I mean they come about by reading reports rather than any intimate personal knowledge or — and knowing them personally at all.

So it — you know, read the proxy statements, see what they think of — see how they treat themselves versus how they treat the shareholders, look at what they have accomplished, considering what the hand was that they were dealt when they took over compared to what is going on in the industry.

And I think you can figure it out sometimes. You don’t have to figure out very often.

Charlie?

CHARLIE MUNGER: Nothing to add.

19. How Berkshire keeps great managers
WARREN BUFFETT: Ok, we’re back to zone 1.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Hi there. My name is Lee. I’m from Palo Alto, California.

In meeting Ajit Jain, I’ve been very impressed over the years. And I think I even met his parents once they came from India.

Please comment on your deepest impressions of his personality and managerial skills, and also how you go about exactly keeping somebody who has such fine skills within the fold. He might go to Walt Disney someday and, you know, pull down 200 million.

WARREN BUFFETT: Well, if he gets offered 200 million — (laughs) — we may not compete too vigorously at that level. (Laughter)

We basically try to run a business so that — Charlie and I have two jobs. We have to identify and keep good managers interested after we’ve figured out who they are.

And that often is a little different here, because I would say a majority of our managers are financially independent, so that they don’t go to work because they are worried about putting kids through school or putting food on the table. So they have to have some reason to go to work aside from that.

They have to be treated fairly in terms of compensation, but they also have to figure it is better than playing golf every day or whatever it may be.

And, so that’s one of the jobs we have and we basically attack that the same way — we look at what they do the same way we look at what we do.

We’ve got a wonderful group of shareholders. Before I ran this, I had a partnership. I had a great group of partners. And essentially, I like to be left alone to do what I did. I like to be judged on the scorecard at the end of the year rather than on every stroke, and not second guessed in a way that was inappropriate.

I like to have people who understood the environment in which I was operating.

And so the important thing we do with managers, generally, is to find the .400 hitters and then not tell them how to swing, as I put in the report.

The second thing we do is allocate capital. And aside from that, we play bridge. (Laughter)

Pretty much what happens at Berkshire.

So, with any of the managers you might name here, we try to make it interesting and fun for them to run their business. We try to have a compensation arrangement that’s appropriate for the kind of business they’re in.

We have no company-wide compensation plan. We wouldn’t dream of having some compensation expert or consultant come in and screw it up. (Laughter)

We try to — some businesses require a lot of capital that we’re in, some require no capital. Some are easy businesses where good profit margins are a cinch to come by, but we’re really paying for the extra beyond that. Some are very tough businesses to make money in.

And it would be crazy to have some huge framework that we try to place everybody in that — where one size would fit all.

People, generally, are compensated relating in some manner that relates to how their business does as opposed to — there’s no reason to pay anybody based on how Berkshire does, because no one has responsibility for Berkshire except for Charlie and me.

And we try to make them responsible for their own units, compensated based on how those units do.

We try to understand the businesses they’re in, so we know what the difference between a good performance and a bad performance —

And that’s about — that’s how we work with people.

We’ve had terrific luck over the years in retaining the managers that we wanted to retain. I think, largely, it’s because — particularly if they sell us a business — to a great extent, the next day they’re running it just as they were the day before. And they’re having as much fun running their business as I am running Berkshire.

Charlie?

CHARLIE MUNGER: Well, I’ve got nothing to add, but I think that concept of treating the other fellow the way you’d like to be treated if the roles were reversed — it’s so simple, when you stop to think about it, but —

It’s a rare evening when Ajit and Warren aren’t talking once on the phone. It’s more than a business relationship, at least it seems that way to me.

WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah, well, it is. It will stay that way, too.

CHARLIE MUNGER: And by the way, we like our businesses — our relationships — to be more than a business relationship

WARREN BUFFETT: Charlie and I are very — we basically — it’s a luxury but it’s a luxury that we should try to nurture — we get to work with people we like. And it makes life a lot simpler.

It probably helps in that goal of being the oldest living American, too. (Laughter)

CHARLIE MUNGER: Yeah, and we tend to like people we admire. (Laughter)

WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah, who do we like that we don’t admire, Charlie? (Laughter)

Start naming names. These people have names. (Laughter)

20. Guinness hurt by weak demand for scotch
WARREN BUFFETT: Zone 2.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: My name is Peter Bevelin from Sweden.

How do you perceive Guinness long-term, economics growth-wise?

WARREN BUFFETT: Fitz — would you repeat that please, Fitz. What was it? What firm growth-wise?

VOICE: Guinness.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Guinness.

WARREN BUFFETT: Oh, Guinness.

I’m not as much of an expert on Guinness’ products as Charlie is.

CHARLIE MUNGER: We approved that. (Laughter)

WARREN BUFFETT: You didn’t hear him. He said, “I approved that.”

I made the decision to buy Guinness and Guinness has — it’s down somewhat from — actually, the price in pounds is about the same but the pound is at about $1.46 or -7 against an average of $1.80-something, so we’ve had a significant exchange loss on that.

The — Guinness’ — despite the name — you know, the main product, of course, is scotch. And that’s where most of the money is made, although they make good money in brewing.

But, distilling is the main business. And, you know, the usage of scotch, particularly in this country, the trends have not been strong at all, but that was true when we bought it, too.

There are some countries around the world where it’s grown and there are certain countries where it’s a huge prestige item.

I mean, in certain parts of the Far East, the more you pay for scotch, the better you think people think of you. Which I don’t understand completely, but I hope it continues. (Laughter)

But — the scotch — worldwide scotch consumption has not been anything to write home about.

Guinness makes a lot of money in the business. But, I would not — I don’t see anything in the — in published history that would lead you to believe that the growth prospects, in terms of physical volume, are high for scotch.

The — Guinness itself, the beer, actually has shown pretty good growth rates in some countries. Actually, from a very tiny base in the U.S. as well.

But, they will have to do well in distilling or — I mean that will govern the outcome of Guinness.

I think Guinness is well run and it’s a very important company in that business. But, I wouldn’t count on a lot of physical growth.

Charlie, what — any consumer insights?

CHARLIE MUNGER: No. (Laughter)

21. Why Berkshire will be OK if Buffett dies suddenly
WARREN BUFFETT: Zone 3.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Mr. Buffett, my name is Arthur Coleus (PH) from Canton, Massachusetts.

And I’d like to know how you’d respond to the question that my associates ask me when they say that Berkshire Hathaway has been a good investment up to now, but what happens to your investment if, God forbid, something happens to Mr. Warren Buffett?

WARREN BUFFETT: Well, I’m glad you didn’t say Charlie Munger. (Laughter)

No, there — Berkshire will do just fine. We’ve got a wonderful group of businesses.

I’ve told you the two things I do in life. And, in terms of the managers we have, you have to come in and really want to mess it up, I would think. And we don’t have anybody like that, in terms of succession plans at Berkshire.

And then there’s the question of allocation of capital. And, you could do worse than just adding it to some of the positions that we already had.

The ownership is — if I die tonight, the ownership structure does not change. So, you’ve the same large block of stock that has every interest in having good successor management as I would.

I mean, there’s no — there would be no greater interest. And it is not a complicated business. I mean, you ought to worry more about, if you own Microsoft, about Bill Gates, I think, or something of the sort.

But, this place is, you know, we’ve got a group down here that are running these. You didn’t see me out at Borsheims selling any jewelry the other day. I mean, that’s somebody else’s job. So, I — it is not — it’s not very complicated.

Incidentally, I think I’m in pretty good health. I mean this stuff (Coca-Cola) will do wonders for you if you’ll just try it. (Laughter)

Charlie, do you want to add anything as the —?

CHARLIE MUNGER: Yeah. I think the prospects of Berkshire would be diminished — obviously diminished — if Warren were to drop off tomorrow morning. But it would still be one hell of a company and I think it would still do quite well.

I used to do legal work, when I was young, for Charlie Skouras. I heard him once say, my business, which was movie theaters like this one, was off 25 percent last year, and last year was off 25 percent from the year before, and that was off 25 percent from the year before, and then he pounded the table and he’d say, “But it’s still one hell of a business.”

WARREN BUFFETT: It’s not a formula we want to test, incidentally.

CHARLIE MUNGER: No, no. (Laughter)

WARREN BUFFETT: It is one hell of a business that we’ve got here. I mean — and if you saw what happened at Berkshire headquarters, you would not worry as much. There’s very little going on there that contributes to things. (Laughter)

We’re, right now, at our peak of activity. This is it.

22. Easy answer: no reverse split, either
WARREN BUFFETT: Zone 4.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: First of all, my name is Al Martin (PH) and my wife Terry (PH) is here with me. And I appreciate the invitation to attend this meeting.

I was a little bit dubious and quite excited at that game Saturday night. I didn’t know which side was going to throw the game to the other one. But I did find out at the end.

The first question, actually, was somewhat answered, but not fully. Has the board considered a reverse split? My experience has been that —

WARREN BUFFETT: Would you like to make that a motion? There was a motion for a reserve — reverse split. (Laughter)

AUDIENCE MEMBER: I would say a two-for-one because if it were three or four-for-one I might end up with no shares. Or fractional shares.

But, anyway, my experience has been that all of the stocks that have split have gone down in the next two or three months or the next two or three years, including one which you are drinking, which is a flat Coke.

Also, I have observed Merck over the last several years to be hitting a low, which split three-for-one.

So, I think that, you know, the reasons for splitting stocks are to make it affordable. I found that every stock I ever bought was never affordable. I found the reason I bought it was because I couldn’t afford not to buy it.

So that’s a different philosophy, I guess, as somewhat shared indirectly with the boards running the stock.

The second question, which is — has to do with —

WARREN BUFFETT: Hope it’s as easy as the first question. (Laughter)

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Well, I didn’t want to wait for an answer of the first question for that reason, because it could be complicated and confusing and so forth.

23. Hillary Clinton’s success as commodities trader
AUDIENCE MEMBER: The second question has to do with, could the board consider looking into a commodity broker, or a lawyer, or both, that could take action similar to Hillary Clinton’s?

I think, you know, making your net worth go up by a factor of five overnight is more than enticing. Some of us might even want to wait for ten months to get a 100-to-1 return on the money.

WARREN BUFFETT: Well, I want to say — I want to say to you, when I saw that 530 percent in one day, it — Charlie has never done that for us.

I mean — (laughter) — it really caused me to reassess succession plans at Berkshire. (Laughter)

And Hillary may be free in a few years. (Laughter and applause)

I hope you’re applauding over her coming to Berkshire, not — but I’ll leave that up — (Laughter)

OK, that was their second question. (Laughs)

AUDIENCE MEMBER: That was my second question.

Of course, in my experience, it’s been that most of us have thought through this situation and I guess it’s pretty speculative, but I found out that the rules and laws that are made for trading are interpreted rather than enforced. And I think that applied to this particular case, so let’s go on to the third question. (Laughter)

WARREN BUFFETT: Alright. They’re getting easier. (Laughter)

24. Blue Chip Stamps is a disaster under Buffett and Munger
AUDIENCE MEMBER: This one is real easy. My wife was a collector of Blue Chip stamps for many, many years. And she brought some stamps with her. What should she do with them?

WARREN BUFFETT: Well, that — we can give you a definitive answer to that. Charlie and I entered the trading stamp business to apply our wizardry to it in what, 1969 or so, Charlie?

CHARLIE MUNGER: Yes.

WARREN BUFFETT: We were doing what then, about 110 million?

CHARLIE MUNGER: No, it went up to 120.

WARREN BUFFETT: OK. And then we arrived on the scene and we’re going to do what, about 400,000 this year?

CHARLIE MUNGER: Yes.

WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. (Laughter)

That shows you what can be done when your management gets active. (Laughter)

CHARLIE MUNGER: We have presided over a decline of 99 1/2 percent. (Laughter)

WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. Yeah. But, we’re waiting for a bounce — (Laughter)

I would say this. The trading stamp business, as those of you who have followed all know, it only works because of the float.

I mean, there — a very, very high percentage of the stamps in the ’60s were cashed in. We have some years that we’ve gone up to 99 percent, I believe — we sampled the returns — because they were given out in such quantity.

But, our advice to anyone who has stamps is to save them because they’re going to be collector’s items, and besides if you bring them to us we have to give you merchandise for them.

Tell her to keep them. They’ll do nothing but gain in value over years. (Laughter)

25. Stock split wouldn’t raise long-term average price
WARREN BUFFETT: Going back, incidentally, to your point on the split.

I think most people think that the stock would sell for more money split.

A, we wouldn’t necessarily think that was advisable in the first place.

But we — in the second place, we don’t think it would necessarily be true over a period of time.

We think our stock is more likely to be rationally priced over time following the present policies than if we were to split it in some major way.

And we don’t think the average price would necessarily be higher. We think that the volatility would probably be somewhat greater, and we see no way that volatility helps our shareholders as a group.

26. Fed Chairman Greenspan’s actions are “quite sound”
WARREN BUFFETT: Zone 5.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: I am Peg Gallagher from Omaha.

Mr. Buffett, are you interested in influencing Mr. Greenspan at the Fed to stop raising interest rates?

WARREN BUFFETT: Well, I wouldn’t have any influence with him. He was on the board of Cap Cities some years ago and I know him a bit. But I don’t think anyone would have any influence with Mr. Greenspan on that point.

But, I generally think that his actions have been quite sound during his period as Fed chief.

I mean, it’s part of the job of the Fed, as Mr. Martin said many years ago, was to take away the punchbowl at the party, occasionally. And that’s a very difficult, difficult policy to quantify working with markets day-by-day.

And, of course, it’s always been the job of the Fed, basically, to lean against the wind. Which, of course, means if the wind changes, you fall flat on your face. But that’s another question.

But the — I don’t — I think what he has done is probably been somewhat appropriate. I think he’s probably been surprised, a little bit, as to what has happened with long-term rates as he’s nudged up short-term rates.

I think he was hoping that — this is just a guess on my part — that action, sort of early in the cycle on the short-term rate front, would — might make people feel more confident about the longer-term rates and therefore that the yield curve would flatten some. I don’t know that. And, he may have been a little surprised on that.

But it’s not an easy job he has. So, I would not second guess him myself.

Charlie, how do you feel about him?

CHARLIE MUNGER: Fine. (Laughter)

WARREN BUFFETT: Greenspan is safe. (Laughter)

27. Don’t pay attention to what people say about stocks
WARREN BUFFETT: Zone 6.

MILLER: Mr. Buffett, I’m Lee Miller (PH) from St Louis.

There was an article in the April 18th Barron’s that attempted to calculate the value behind each Berkshire Hathaway share.

I’m sure you have some views on that and I’d be very interested in your perspective on that issue.

WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah, there was an article about a week or so ago in Barron’s. The same fellow wrote an article about four years ago reaching pretty much the same conclusion, and I hope he hasn’t been short in between, but the — (Laughter)

I would say this. It is not the way I would calculate the intrinsic value of Berkshire.

But everyone in securities markets make choices on that. Every day somebody sells a few shares of Berkshire and someone sell — buys — and, you know, they are probably coming to differing opinions about valuation.

I would say that I found it strange that apparently he forgot we were in the insurance business, but that — that’s not — (Applause).

It really doesn’t make any difference. I mean, what — we don’t pay any attention to what people say about Coca-Cola stock or Gillette stock or any of those things.

I mean, on any given day, two million shares of Coca-Cola may trade. That’s a lot of people selling, a lot of people buying. If you talk to one person, you’d hear one thing, and you’d talk to another — you really should not make decisions in securities based on what other people think.

If you’re doing that, you should think about doing something else, because it’s —

A public opinion poll will just — it will not get you rich on Wall Street. So you really want to stick with businesses that you feel you can somehow evaluate yourself.

And, I don’t think — I mean Charlie and I, we don’t read anything about what business is going to be — the economy is going to do, or the market’s going to do, or what anybody —

Anytime I see some article that says, you know, these analysts say this or that about some business, it just — it doesn’t mean anything to us.

You cannot get rich with a weather vane.

28. Judge bank stock buybacks on case-by-case basis
WARREN BUFFETT: Zone 7.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: I’m Edward Barr from Lexington, Kentucky, and I’d like to ask, given the amount of capital in the banking industry, do you think that more banks should be buying back significant amounts of their stock, like SunTrust, versus just the token amounts that they’re buying back or just the authorized amounts?

And then also, related question in banking. Are they — are banks too focused on goodwill amortization when declining to buy other banks for cash, thereby using purchase accounting versus the normal practice in the industry of pooling accounting even when the stock they issue may be depressed or undervalued?

WARREN BUFFETT: Well, the first question about the capital in the industry — that — you really have to look at that on a bank-by-bank basis and there is a lot more repurchasing of shares by banks taking place.

You mentioned SunTrust, but National City is — they bought it back, I think, 5 percent of their — National City of Cleveland — bought back 5 percent of their stock in the first quarter.

There’s much more repurchasing going on, and that’s simply a judgment call by management that — as to the level of capital they need going forward, and what level of capital enables them to earn the return on equity that they think appropriate and whether they — what they feel like paying for their own shares.

So, I think you have to look at that on case-by-case.

We certainly like it, if we were to own a bank, we would — or own shares in a bank — we would like the idea of the bank repurchasing its stock at a price that we thought was attractive. We would think that they probably knew more about their own bank than some other bank they were going to buy and that if the numbers are right, it’s an attractive way to use capital.

29. We don’t pay attention to accounting of a transaction
WARREN BUFFETT: Your second question about goodwill amortization and purchase accounting versus pooling: we care not — at Berkshire, it absolutely makes no difference to us what accounting treatment we get on something. We are interested in the economics of a transaction.

Some banks — some businesses generally, most businesses perhaps — prefer pooling because they don’t like to take a goodwill amortization charge.

We think our shareholders are smart enough, particularly if we make it clear to them — the accounting consequences — we think they’re smart enough to look through to the economic reality of what Berkshire’s businesses are all about.

And I think that some managements sell short their own ownership group by doing various kinds of financial acrobatics in order to have the charges come in a certain way rather than, as you point out, often they might be better off buying for cash rather than using their own stock as currency, but they may prefer to use their own stock because they avoid goodwill charges.

We’ve written a few things on goodwill in the past and past annual reports that might get to that subject.

We don’t care what accounting — we sort of rewrite the accounting for any business that we’re looking at, because in our heads we want to have, in effect, a standardized way of looking at businesses.

And if one company goes through pooling transactions and another goes through purchase transactions, we’re going to recast them in our own minds so that there is comparability.

Charlie?

CHARLIE MUNGER: Yeah, the published accounting results are in accordance with standard convention and they’re a place to start economic analysis. The figures are frequently quite silly on a functional basis. I’m not criticizing accounting conventions except for some. (Laughter)

WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah.

CHARLIE MUNGER: But, I think it’s just a place to start thinking about economic reality.

By their nature, they can’t tie perfectly — they can’t even tie very well — to economic reality.

WARREN BUFFETT: We regard it is a negative when we find a management that’s preoccupied with accounting considerations. But, we find it so frequent that we can’t afford to use it as a total exclusionary factor.

It really surprises me how many managements focus on accounting, and the time they spend on it, the — it’s really unproductive.

If you find a management that doesn’t care about the accounting but does explain to you in clear terms what’s going on, I think you should regard that as a plus in owning a security.

30. Buffett praises new Salomon Brothers management
WARREN BUFFETT: Zone 1.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Mr. Buffett, my name is Bill Ackman. I’m from New York City. And my question relates to the appeal of Salomon Brothers as an investment.

You talked earlier about leverage and the dangers of leverage. Salomon is a business which is levered 30-to-1, which has very narrow margins, and earns a relatively modest return on equity, in light of the amount of leverage that they use. What is the appeal of the business to you?

WARREN BUFFETT: We have here today the chief executive of Salomon, Inc., the parent company, and also the chief executive of Salomon Brothers, the investment banking arm.

And, I would say one of the things we — Charlie and I — feel extraordinarily good about are the two fellows that are running that operation. They did an exceptional job under extraordinarily difficult circumstances, as did John Macfarlane, who’s also here today.

The three of them — I mentioned four people in the annual report — and Salomon wouldn’t be here today without those three. And it wouldn’t be the company in the future that it’s going to be without them. They did an absolutely fabulous job.

It’s the sort of business that, as you point out, uses a lot of leverage. It doesn’t — in one way it doesn’t use as much as it looks like and in another way it uses even more than it looks like.

But — it — the test will be: A, whether they control that business in a way that that leverage does not prove dangerous, and secondly, what kind of returns on equity they earn while using it.

You certainly should expect to earn somewhat higher returns on equity when you are necessarily exposed to a small amount of systemic risk and significant amounts of borrowed money, than you would in a business that’s an extremely plain vanilla business.

But, I don’t know whether you’ve met Bob and Deryck, but, I think you’d feel better about having a leverage in their hands than about any other hand you can imagine.

Charlie?

CHARLIE MUNGER: Why don’t we have those three gentlemen stand up?

WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah, you ought to give them a hand.

CHARLIE MUNGER: They really have done a job for Berkshire in this last year.

WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah, I’ll lead the applause for them. Where are they? There they are. (Applause).

I mentioned this before, but it’s worth mentioning again. Deryck took on the job of being the operating head of Salomon Brothers on what, August 18th, 1991.

He didn’t know what — he couldn’t know what he was getting into, exactly. He — two months later or three months later, we’d never had a conversation about compensation. He did not ask me for Berkshire, or my, guarantee for indemnification because he was walking in not knowing legal problems. We didn’t know what we would finally uncover.

And he worked incredible hours to keep that place together, which was not easy.

Bob Denham, I called — I guess on the 23rd or so, 20th. I called him on a Friday. I got home on a Saturday, the 24th of August.

He was living a nice pleasant peaceful life in California. And had a first class law firm, a good group of clients, wife had a good job there.

And I told him I was in a mess and there wasn’t any second choice and three days later he was back in New York and living in a small apartment in Battery City and handling the general counsel’s job at Salomon.

They found John Macfarlane on that Sunday, on the 18th. I think he was running a triathlon or something.

Not a practice that Charlie and I follow, but, ah — (Laughter)

And he was yanked from that and came down, and I think John was over in New Jersey, but he holed up in the Downtown Athletic Club. And it was his job to keep funding what was then $150 billion balance sheet during a period when people right and left were canceling.

It’s not because we weren’t a good credit, but because they just didn’t want to have anything to do with us for a while.

And the World Bank and the State of Texas pension fund and CalPERS, all these people were shutting off funding at a time — and funding in a business is — gentleman just indicated — is the lifeblood of an enterprise like Salomon.

And so those three deserve an enormous hand by — really by the Salomon shareholders — but by this group in turn because we have an important investment. So I thank them publicly. (Applause)

31. Wesco sold small savings and loan as regulations tightened after crisis
WARREN BUFFETT: Zone 2.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: I’m Kelly Ranson from San Antonio, Texas.

And I wondered if you could comment on the Mutual Savings and Loan. There was just a footnote that the deposits have been assumed by a federal savings bank.

And also, what about the annual report for Wesco Financial that I know it used to be in the annual report for Berkshire. Just wondered if you could comment on that, please.

WARREN BUFFETT: The question is about — we — our 80 percent-owned subsidiary Wesco Financial sold its ownership in Mutual Savings and Loan of Pasadena last year. I’ll let Charlie comment on that.

And then the second question is about the Wesco report, which is available to any Berkshire shareholder simply by writing Wesco. But, we found that the stapling problems and other things made it a little difficult to keep adding that every year to the report. So, now we just — we make it available to anyone who would, at Berkshire, who would like to have it.

But Charlie, want to comment on the sale of Mutual?

CHARLIE MUNGER: Yes. The savings and loan business became very much more heavily regulated after the huge nationwide collection of scandal and insolvency and so on.

And meanwhile, we had a very small savings and loan association. And the combination of the new regulation, and the fact that it was a very small part of our operation, made us decide that we were better off without it.

That does happen from time to time in Berkshire. We do exit once in a while.

And, by the way, we would reserve the right to change our mind. I always liked Lord Keynes when he said that he got new facts or new insights, why he changed his mind and then he’d say, what do you do? So we changed our mind.

WARREN BUFFETT: They start — they asked our directors at Mutual to start going to school on Saturday, didn’t they, Charlie? Or something? I think that helped change our mind about Mutual.

CHARLIE MUNGER: There’s a time to vote with your feet. (Laughter)

WARREN BUFFETT: And even your wallet.

32. Shoe industry is tough, but Dexter has great managers
WARREN BUFFETT: Zone 3.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: (Inaudible) Chicago. Can you speak to some of the economic characteristics of the shoe industry that allow the business to be profitable and, in your view, attractive?

WARREN BUFFETT: I didn’t hear that. Did you hear that, Charlie?

CHARLIE MUNGER: He wanted you to comment on the merits of the shoe industry.

WARREN BUFFETT: Well, I think our feelings for the shoe industry are very clear from what’s been happening the last few years.

We think it’s a great business to be in as long as you’re in with Frank Rooney and Jim Issler and Peter Lunder and Harold Alfond. Otherwise, it hasn’t been too good.

The — we have a couple of extraordinary shoe operations, but they’re not extraordinary because we get our leather from different steers or anything of the sort.

It’s — we have two companies, really three now that Lowell’s been brought in, too, but that have truly extraordinary records. I think those same managements would have been enormous successes in any business they’d gone into.

But, they have gone into the — they are in the shoe business and the companies earn unusual returns on equity. They earn unusual returns on sale. They’ve got terrific trade reputations.

And I think that to the extent we can find ways to expand in the shoe business while employing those managements, we’ll be very excited about doing so.

It isn’t because we think that the shoe industry is any cinch, you know, per se, or anything of the sort. But we’ve got a lot of talent employed in the shoe business and whenever we’ve got talent we like to try and figure out a way to give them as big a domain as we can.

And it’s not inconceivable that we would expand the shoe business, perhaps even significantly over time.

33. Buffett on investing in tobacco companies
WARREN BUFFETT: Zone 4.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Yeah, thanks Mr. Buffett. My name is Stewart Hartman from Sioux City. After the brevity of the last question from section 4, I’ll try to be extremely brief.

The — given the scrutiny that the tobacco business is going under right now, number one, what do you see as the business prospects for those huge cash cows? And, at any point, would that be attractive to you given their liability?

WARREN BUFFETT: The question is about the future of the tobacco business?

I don’t — I probably know no more about that then you do because it’s fraught with questions that relate to societal attitudes and you can form an opinion on that just as well as I could.

But, I would not like to have a significant percentage of my net worth in the tobacco business myself, but —

They may have better futures than I envision. I don’t really think that I have special insights on that.

Charlie, you —?

CHARLIE MUNGER: No.

WARREN BUFFETT: You have to come to a conclusion as to how society is going to want to treat — and the present administration for that matter. And the economics of the business may be fine, but that doesn’t mean it has a great future.

34. “Hard to argue with the market”
WARREN BUFFETT: Zone 5.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: I’m Harriet Morton from Seattle, Washington.

I’m wondering, when you are considering an acquisition, how you look at the usefulness of the product?

WARREN BUFFETT: In looking at any business?

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Yes.

WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. Well, obviously we look at what the market says is the utility. And the market has voted very heavily for Dexter Shoe, just to be an example.

I don’t know many how many pairs of shoes they were turning out back in 1958 or thereabouts, but year after year, people have essentially voted for the utility of that product.

There are 750 million or so 8-ounce servings of one product or another from the Coca-Cola Company consumed every day around the world. And there are those of us who think the utility is very high. I can’t make it through the day without a few. But there are other people that might rate it differently.

But essentially, people are going to get thirsty and if this is the way they take care of their thirst better than — and they prefer that to other forms — then I would rate the utility high of the product. But, I think it’s hard to argue with the market on that.

I mean, people — some people may think that, you know, listening to a rock concert is not something of high utility. Other people might think it’s terrific.

And so, we would judge that — I don’t think we would come to an independent decision that there was some great utility residing in some product that had been available to the public for a long time, but that the public and not endorsed in any way.

Charlie?

CHARLIE MUNGER: Well, I think that’s right. But, that’s averaged out.

We’re in a bunch of high-utility products. I mean, nurses’ shoes, work shoes, casual shoes. We don’t have a lot of, what, Italian pumps? (Laughter)

WARREN BUFFETT: Don’t rule it out, Charlie. We may be here next year defending it. (Laughter)

CHARLIE MUNGER: Yeah, right, well.

No, I’m just saying, if you judge the existing portfolio as indicating what the future’s likely to be like, why —

WARREN BUFFETT: Well, certainly a lot of essentials were sold out of Borsheims yesterday.

CHARLIE MUNGER: Yes. (Laughter and applause)

WARREN BUFFETT: I hear my family clapping.

35. No question from zone 6
WARREN BUFFETT: Zone 6.

VOICE: We have no question up here.

36. Insurers have “head in the sand” on catastrophes
WARREN BUFFETT: OK, zone 7.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Good morning, Mr. Berkshire, uh, Buffett. (Laughter)

WARREN BUFFETT: I have a niece here who has a son named Berkshire so it —

AUDIENCE MEMBER: I’m Chris Blunt (PH) from Omaha.

My first question is, in years past, we’ve had samples of various products. When are we going to have some Guinness?

WARREN BUFFETT: Some what now?

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Guinness samples?

WARREN BUFFETT: (Laughs)

AUDIENCE MEMBER: And my second question is, in light of the multiple disasters that have taken place in LA, has that had any impact on the cats for Berkshire?

WARREN BUFFETT: On our super-cat business?

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Yes.

WARREN BUFFETT: The LA earthquake, which is originally — I believe the first estimate of insured damage was a billion-five, which struck us as kind of ludicrous, but has now escalated.

The last official estimate, the one we use that’s a trigger in our policies, I think is either 4.5 billion or 4.8 billion. But it’s going to be higher than that.

Our losses are fairly minor. If it gets to eight billion of insured damage, that would trigger another policy or two. But, I would say that the LA quake — which did considerably more damage, I think, than people would have anticipated from a 6.7 for various reasons having to do with how quakes operate — that quake is not going to turn out to be of any real — it’s not the kind of super-cat that a 15 or $20 billion hurricane which hit Florida or Long Island or New England would be.

That’s the kind of — we could lose — or we could pay out — 6 or $700 million in sort of a worst case super-cat. Now our total premiums this year might be, say, 250 million or something in that area.

So one super-cat in the wrong place would produce — and there could be more than one — could produce, we’ll say, a $400 million or thereabouts underwriting loss from that business.

The LA quake is peanuts on that scale, but it wouldn’t have taken a whole lot more in terms of numbers on the Richter scale, if it happened to have an epicenter where it did, and be of the type that it was, relatively shallow, that we could have had that sort of thing happen.
