
I think that the insurance industry has vastly underestimated — maybe not now, but up till a few years ago — the full potential of what a super-cat could do. But Hurricane Andrew and the LA quake may have been something of a wake-up call.

They were far from a worst-case situation. A really big Type Five hurricane on Long Island would end up leaving a lot of very major insurance companies in significant trouble.

We define our losses — essentially, 700 million sounds like a lot of money. It is a lot of money. But, there are limits on our policies. That is not true of people that are just writing the basic homeowners or business. Those losses could go off the chart.

There were certain companies in the LA quake that thought they had a — what they call a “probable maximum loss” for California quakes. And the LA quake, which was far from the worst case you can imagine, turned out to far exceed those probable maximum losses.

So, I think the industry has had, and may still have, its head in the sand a little bit, in terms of what can happen, either in terms of a quake in California or, more probably, in terms of a hurricane along the East Coast.

So far this year we’re in reasonable shape, but that doesn’t mean much because, by far, the larger exposure is in hurricanes and essentially 50 percent of the hurricanes hit in September. And about — I think it’s about 15 percent would be in August. Close to 15 percent in October. So you have 80 percent, roughly, in those three months and there’s a little tail on both sides.

But that’s when you find out whether you’ve had a good or bad year in the super-cat business, basically.

It’s a business we like at the right rates because there are very few people who can afford to write it at the level that the underlying company, the reinsured companies, need it. And we’re in a position, if the rates are right, to do significant business.

Charlie?

CHARLIE MUNGER: Nothing to add.

37. Book recommendations
WARREN BUFFETT: Zone 1,

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Clayton Riley (PH) from Jacksonville, Florida.

This is a little different than all the other questions, but what were the three best books you read last year outside of the investment field? Why don’t — even one will do.

WARREN BUFFETT: I’ll give you — I’ll tout a book first that I’ve read but that isn’t available yet. But it will be in September.

The woman who wrote it, I believe, is in the audience and it’s Ben Graham’s biography, which will be available in September, by Janet Lowe. And I’ve read it and I think those of you who are interested in investments, for sure, will enjoy it. She’s done a good job of capturing Ben.

One of the books I enjoyed a lot was written also by a shareholder who is not here because he’s being sworn in, I believe today or tomorrow, maybe tomorrow, as head of the Voice of America.

And that’s Geoff Cowan’s book, which is on “The People v. Clarence Darrow.” It’s the story of the Clarence Darrow trial for, essentially, jury bribery in Los Angeles back around 1912, when the McNamara brothers had bombed the LA Times.

It’s a fascinating book. Geoff uncovered a lot of information that the previous biographies of Darrow didn’t have. I think you’d enjoy that.

Charlie?

CHARLIE MUNGER: Well, I very much enjoyed Connie Bruck’s biography Master of the Game, which was a biography of Steve Ross, who headed Warner and later was, what, co-chairman of Time Warner.

WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah, he’s a little more than co-chairman. (Laughs)

CHARLIE MUNGER: Yeah, and — she’s a very insightful writer and it’s a very interesting story.

I am rereading a book I really like, which is Van Doren’s biography of Benjamin Franklin, which came out in 1952, and I’d almost forgotten how good a book it was. And that’s available in paperback everywhere. We’ve never had anybody quite like Franklin in this country. Never again.

WARREN BUFFETT: He believed in compound interest, too, incidentally, as you may remember. (Laughter)

What did he — he set up those two little funds, one in Philadelphia, one in Boston?

CHARLIE MUNGER: Right.

WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah, to demonstrate the advantages of compound interest. I think that’s the part Charlie’s rereading. (Laughter)

38. Nike and Reebok
WARREN BUFFETT: Zone 2.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Thank you for teaching me — teaching so much to all of us about business. My name is Mike Assail (PH) from New York City.

You mentioned earlier that Berkshire’s shoe business was great, but that other shoe businesses were not so good.

What are the uncertainties of the global brand leaders that Berkshire seems to like? They like Coke and Gillette. The global brand leaders in the shoe business being Nike and Reebok.

What are their uncertainties, in terms of long-term competitive advantage, business economics, consumer behavior, and the other risk factors that you mentioned in the annual report this year? Thank you.

WARREN BUFFETT: So, you’re really asking about the future prospects of Nike and Reebok?

Yeah. I don’t know that much about those businesses. We do have one person in this audience, at least, who owns a lot of Reebok.

But I am not expressing a negative view in any way on that. I just — I don’t understand that — I don’t understand their competitive position and the likelihood of permanence of their competitive position over a 10 or 20 year period as well as I think I understand the position of Brown and Dexter.

That doesn’t mean I think that it’s inferior. Doesn’t mean I think that we’ve got better businesses or anything.

I think we’ve got very good businesses. But I — I’m not — I haven’t done the work and I’m not sure if I did the work I would understand them.

I think they are harder to understand, frankly, and to develop a fix on, than our kinds. But, they may be easier for other people who just have a better insight into that kind of business.

39. “You don’t have to do exceptional things to get exceptional results”
WARREN BUFFETT: Some businesses are a lot easier to understand than others. And Charlie and I don’t like difficult problems. I mean, we — if something is hard to figure, you know, we’d rather multiply by three than by pi. I mean it’s just easier for us. (Laughter)

Charlie, you have any —?

CHARLIE MUNGER: Well, that is such an obvious point. And yet so many people think if they just hire somebody with the appropriate labels they can do something very difficult. That is one of the most dangerous ideas a human being can have.

All kinds of things just intrinsically create problems. The other day I was dealing with a problem and I said, this thing — it’s a new building — and I said this thing has three things I’ve learned to fear: an architect, a contractor, and a hill. (Laughter)

And — if you go at life like that, I think you, at least, make fewer mistakes than people who think they can do anything by just hiring somebody with a label.

WARREN BUFFETT: We don’t comment — excuse me, go ahead.

CHARLIE MUNGER: You don’t have to hire out your thinking if you keep it simple.

WARREN BUFFETT: You don’t have to do — we’ve said this before — but you don’t have to do exceptional things to get exceptional results.

And some people think that if you jump over a seven-foot bar that the ribbon they pin on you is going to be worth more money than if you step over a one-foot bar. And it just isn’t true in the investment world, at all.

So, you can do very ordinary things. I mean, what is complicated about this? But, you know, we’re $3 billion pretax better off than we were a few years ago because of it.

There’s nothing that I know about that product, or its distribution system, its finances, or anything, that, really, hundreds of thousands — or millions — of people aren’t capable of, that they don’t already know. They just don’t do anything about it.

And similarly, if you get into some complicated business, you can get a report that’s a thousand pages thick and you got Ph.D.s working on it, but it doesn’t mean anything.

You know, what you’ve got is a report but you don’t — it — you won’t understand that business, what it’s going to look like in 10 or 15 years.

The big thing to do is avoid being wrong. (Laughter)

CHARLIE MUNGER: There are some things that are so intrinsically dangerous. Another of my heroes is Mark Twain, who looked at the promoters of his day and he said, “A mine is a hole in the ground owned by a liar.” (Laughter)

And that’s the way I’ve come to look at projections. I mean, basically, I can remember, Warren and I were offered $2 million worth of projections once in the course of buying a business and the book was this thick.

WARREN BUFFETT: For nothing.

CHARLIE MUNGER: And, if we were given it for nothing, and we wouldn’t open it.

WARREN BUFFETT: We almost paid 2 million not to look at it. (Laughter)

It’s ridiculous. I do not understand why any buyer of a business looks at a bunch of projections put together by a seller or —

CHARLIE MUNGER: Or his agent.

WARREN BUFFETT: — or his agent.

I mean, it — you can almost say that it’s naive to think that that has any utility whatsoever. We just are not interested.

If we don’t have some idea ourselves of what we think the future is, to sit there and listen to some other guy who’s trying to sell us the business or get a commission on it tell us what the future’s going to be — it — like I say, it’s very naïve.

CHARLIE MUNGER: Yeah, and five years out.

WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. We had a line in the report one time, “Don’t ask the barber whether you need a haircut.” And — (laughter) — it’s quite applicable to projections of — by sellers — of businesses.

40. Cutting USAir’s costs will be “enormously tough”
WARREN BUFFETT: Zone 3.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Mr. Buffett, Greg Elright (PH) from Washington, DC.

In the last year, United Airlines and Northwest have resolved some of their financial problems by moving ownership over to the employees.

With USAir’s current positions — uh, problems — what do you see as occurring with USAir and do you see any movement toward employee ownership? And how will that affect Berkshire’s interest in the company?

WARREN BUFFETT: USAir has a cost structure which is non-viable in today’s airline business. Now that, in an important way, involves its labor cost, but it involves other things, too. But it certainly involves its labor costs.

And they’ve stated this publicly. And I think — and they have — they are talking with their unions about it and they’re talking with other people about other parts of their cost structure.

And I think you’ll just see what unfolds in the next relatively few months, because there isn’t any question that the cost structure is out of line. I think the cost structure could be brought into line. But whether it will be brought into line or not is another is another question.

And, looking backwards, the answer is not to get into businesses that need to solve problems like that. It’s to — but — that was a mistake I made.

And I think in Seth Schofield you’ve got a manager who understands that business extremely well, who probably is as — in my view, anyway — is as well regarded and trusted by people who are going to have to make changes as anyone could be in that position. But that may not be enough. I mean that — there’s enormous tensions when you need to take hundreds and hundreds of millions of dollars out of the cost structure of any business.

And when you need cooperative action, all by various groups, each one of which feels that maybe they’re having to give a little more than some other group, and understandably feels that way, you know that is an enormously tough negotiating job.

I think Seth is as well-equipped for that as anyone. But I would not want to — you know, I cannot predict the outcome.

WARREN BUFFETT: Charlie, do you —?

CHARLIE MUNGER: Well, if I were a union leader, I would give Seth whatever he wants because he’s not the kind of a fellow who would ask for more than he needs. And, it’s perfectly obvious that’s the correct decision on the labor side. But whether the obvious will be done or not is in the lap of the gods.

WARREN BUFFETT: It’s a lot of people with a lot of different motivations and, I mean, those are really tough questions. I mean, we — Charlie and I’ve been involved in that sort of thing a few times and frequently it works out, but it’s not preordained.

41. We’re “not in any hurry” to retire
WARREN BUFFETT: Zone 4.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: My name is Sheldon Scizick (PH) from Chicago, Illinois. I have two questions.

The first one is concerning Mr. Munger. We know what Mr. Buffett’s retirement plans are. I was wondering what yours — your plans for the future concerning Berkshire are?

CHARLIE MUNGER: I have always preferred the system of retirement where you can’t quite tell from observing from the outside whether the man is working or retired. (Laughter)

WARREN BUFFETT: He does it well, too. (Laughter)

CHARLIE MUNGER: You know, a problem in many businesses, particularly the more bureaucratic ones, is that your employees retire, but they don’t tell you. (Laughter)

WARREN BUFFETT: I think I can speak for Charlie on this one.

Charlie and I are not in any hurry to retire. He’s trying to outlast me, actually. (Laughter)

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Thank you.

42. Berkshire sold some Cap Cities shares in tender offer
AUDIENCE MEMBER: My second question is, I was just curious why you sold a portion of Cap Cities?

WARREN BUFFETT: We thought that — we thought it was a good idea for Cap Cities to have a tender offer. They had cash that we thought that they could not use in any — they were not likely to be able to use — in a better way than repurchasing their own shares because they do have some very good businesses.

They, and we, felt that a tender offer would not be successful, in terms of attracting a number of shares unless Berkshire were tendering. We felt the price was reasonable to tender at.

It turned out that the business was getting stronger during that period and various things were happening in media, so there were only 100,000 shares or so tendered outside of our million. That isn’t necessarily what we thought was going to happen going in, but that is what happened.

It’s acceptable to us, but that doesn’t mean that it was the desired outcome. We would not have tendered all of our shares or anything of the sort.

We want to remain a substantial shareholder of Cap Cities. We’ve always — most of the time we favored Cap Cities buying in its stock and it’s bought in a fair amount of stock since the ABC merger took place in 19 — started in 1986.

43. Structured settlements business isn’t big, but is “perfectly satisfactory”
WARREN BUFFETT: Zone 5.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Good morning. My name is Matt Voke (PH). I’m from Omaha.

In last year’s meeting you made reference to structured settlements. I was wondering, how is that business progressing for you?

WARREN BUFFETT: Question’s about the structured settlement business, which is a business in which Berkshire guarantees, in effect, an annuity to some claimant of another — usually — of another insurance company, who suffered an injury and instead of getting a lump sum now wants to get a stream of payments over many years in the future, sometimes going out 75 years.

We have set up a life company to do that business. We formerly did it all through our property-casualty companies. And, we have done some business, but it’s not been a big business yet, and it may never be a big business.

It’s a perfectly satisfactory business, but it’s not an important item at present in the analysis of Berkshire’s value.

Are you getting — having a problem with sound out there on this or no? Just — no?

44. No comment on Wrigley
WARREN BUFFETT: Zone 6.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: My name is David Samra. I’m from San Francisco, California.

In your annual report, I noticed you mention Wrigley as being a company that has worldwide dominance, somewhat like Coca-Cola and Gillette. And, was curious to know if you had looked at the company in any detail. And, if so, whether or not — if you decided not to invest, what were the reasons why?

WARREN BUFFETT: Well, we wouldn’t want to comment on a company like that because we might or might not be buying it. We might or might not be selling it. We might or might not buy or sell it in the future. (Laughter)

And, since it falls under that narrow definition of things that we don’t talk about —

It’s a good illustration of a company that has a high market share worldwide, but you can understand the Wrigley Company just as well as I can. I have no insights in the — into the Wrigley Company that you wouldn’t have and I don’t — I wouldn’t want to go beyond that in giving you our evaluation of the company.

I hate to disappoint you on those, but on specific securities, we are not too forthcoming sometimes.

Charlie?

CHARLIE MUNGER: I’m good at not being forthcoming. (Laughter)

45. “No specific desire” to buy companies in certain parts of the world
WARREN BUFFETT: Zone 7.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Mr. Buffett, Kathleen Ambrose (PH) from Omaha.

I have a question regarding global diversification. Just in general, what do you look for in a company and, if so, as far as Europe or Latin America, if you’d like to be specific?

WARREN BUFFETT: The question is about global diversification.

All we want to be in is businesses that we understand, run by people that we like, and priced attractively compared to the future prospects.

So, there is no specific desire to either be in the rest of Europe, or the rest of the world, or Far East, or to avoid it.

It’s simply a factor that — it’s not a big factor. There may be more chances for growth in some countries.

We — 80 percent of Coca-Cola’s earnings, roughly, will come from outside the United States. Eighty percent of Guinness’s earnings will come from outside the United States, but they’re domiciled outside the United States, whereas Coca-Cola is domiciled here.

Certainly, in many cases, there are markets outside the United States that have way better prospects for growth than the U.S. market would have, but they probably have some other risks to them that this market may not have.

But, we, you know, we like the international prospects, obviously, of a company like Coke. We like the international prospects of a company like Gillette. Gillette earned 70 percent of its money outside this country.

So, if you look — on a look-through basis — Coke — we might this year get something like $150 million of earnings, indirectly, for Berkshire’s interest from the rest of the world just through Coca-Cola alone.

But, we don’t make any specific — we don’t think in terms of, I like this region so I want to be there or something of a sort.

It’s something that’s specific to the companies we’re looking at, then we’ll try to evaluate that.

Coke is expanding in China. Well, it — you know — I think that — I forget what they showed last year, maybe 38 percent growth, or something like that, in cases. Maybe —

It’s nice to have markets like that that are relatively untapped.

Actually, Gillette is expanding in China in a big way and the Chinese don’t shave as often. And more of them are what they call “dry shavers” than “wet shavers” there, which is electric shavers.

But you know, maybe we could stick something in the Coke that would — (laughter)

Maybe a little synergy at Berkshire, finally. Who knows?

46. Hurricanes are bigger insurance risk than riots
WARREN BUFFETT: Zone 1.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Good morning. I’m Marshall Patton (PH) from Bandera, Texas.

And back to the insurance losses. What is the comparison between natural disasters, such as the earthquake, and so on, and the LA riots?

WARREN BUFFETT: Well, I’m not sure what the connection —

They, you know, they obviously can both lead to super-cats that we insure against, because if there is enough insured damage, it’s likely to trigger a payment under some of our policies.

It would take some really big riot damage to get to our levels, because normally we don’t kick in now until an event gets up to at least, you know, $5 billion or so of insured damage under a very large majority of our policies.

Something like a quake causes a fair amount of damage that is not insured, because of the extent that it’s highways and things of that sort, public buildings. A lot of that is not insured.

But you get interesting questions on this. Usually we insure an event, but what’s an event? If you go back to the riots that occurred after Martin Luther King was shot, you had riots in dozens of cities.

Is that one event or is that a multiple number of events? I mean, it was started by different people, but maybe arising from a common cause. Some of those things aren’t actually very well-defined, even after hundreds of years of insurance law and custom, the experience of that. But I would say that rioting is very unlikely to get to a level that triggers our policy.

The big risks we face are quake and hurricanes, and hurricanes are a more significant risk than quake. They call them typhoons in the Pacific Ocean.

But floods, tremendous damage from floods last year. But basically there’s not a lot of private flood insurance bought, so the insured losses do not get large.

Just watch the Weather Channel. (Laughter)

47. Why we have no short-term opinion on stocks
WARREN BUFFETT: Zone 2.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Diane West (PH) from Corona Del Mar, California.

I know, Mr. Buffett, that you said that you don’t read what other people say about the market or the economy, but do either you or Charlie have an opinion about how you think things are going to go? Are you bullish or bearish?

WARREN BUFFETT: You may have trouble believing this, but Charlie and I never have an opinion about the market because it wouldn’t be any good and it might interfere with the opinions we have that are good. (Laughter)

If we’re right about a business, if we think a business is attractive, it would be very foolish for us to not take action on that because we thought something about what the market was going to do, or anything of that sort.

Because we just don’t know. And to give up something that you do know and that is profitable for something that you don’t know and won’t know because of that, it just doesn’t make any sense to us, and it doesn’t really make any difference to us.

I mean, I bought my first stock in, probably, April of 1942 when I was 11. And since then, I mean, actually World War II didn’t look so good at that time. I mean, the prospects, they really didn’t. I mean, you know, we were not doing well in the Pacific. I’m not sure I calculated that into my purchase of my three shares. (Laughter)

But I mean, just think of all the things that have happened since then, you know? Atomic weapons and major wars, presidents resigning, and all kinds of things, massive inflation at certain times.

To give up what you’re doing well because of guesses about what’s going to happen in some macro way just doesn’t make any sense to us. The best thing that can happen from Berkshire’s standpoint — we don’t wish this on anybody — but is that over time is to have markets that go down a tremendous amount.

I mean, we are going to be buyers of things over time. And if you’re going to be buyers of groceries over time, you like grocery prices to go down. If you’re going to be buying cars over time, you like car prices to go down.

We buy businesses. We buy pieces of businesses: stocks. And we’re going to be much better off if we can buy those things at an attractive price than if we can’t.

So we don’t have any fear at all. I mean, what we fear is an irrational bull market that’s sustained for some long period of time.

You, as shareholders of Berkshire, unless you own your shares on borrowed money or are going to sell them in a very short period of time, are better off if stocks get cheaper, because it means that we can be doing more intelligent things on your behalf than would be the case otherwise.

But we have no idea what — and we wouldn’t care what anybody thought about it. I mean, most of all ourselves. (Laughter)

Charlie, do you have anything?

CHARLIE MUNGER: No. I think the — if you’re agnostic about those macro factors and therefore devote all your time to thinking about the individual businesses and the individual opportunities, it’s just, it’s a way more efficient way to behave, at least with our particular talents and lacks thereof.

WARREN BUFFETT: If you’re right about the businesses, you’ll end up doing fine.

We don’t know, and we don’t think about when something will happen. We think about what will happen. It’s fairly, it’s not so difficult to figure out what will happen. It’s impossible, in our view, to figure out when it will happen. So we focus on what will happen.

This company in 1890 or thereabouts, the whole company sold for $2,000. It’s got a market value now of about 50-odd-billion, you know?

Somebody could’ve said to the fellow who was buying this in 1890, you know, “You’re going to have a couple of great World Wars, and you know, you’ll have the panic of 1907, all these things will happen. And wouldn’t it be a better idea to wait?” (Laughter)

We can’t afford that mistake, basically. Yeah.

48. We’d rather buy an entire company, but stocks offer more bargains
WARREN BUFFETT: Zone 3.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Mr. Buffett, Mr. Munger, last year — I’m Tim Medley from Jackson, Mississippi — last year the question was asked about your preference for purchasing entire businesses versus parts of public companies.

You mentioned you prefer to buy private businesses because of the tax advantages and your attraction to the people in those businesses.

Are you finding today that there are better purchases within the private market versus in the public securities market?

WARREN BUFFETT: Well, I would answer that no.

We do not — we very seldom find something to buy on a negotiated basis for an entire business. We have certain size requirements. A big limiting factor is it has to be something we can understand. I mean, that eliminates 95 percent of the businesses.

And we don’t pay any attention to them, but we get lots of proposals for things that just are totally outside the boundaries of what we’ve already said we’re interested in.

We prefer to buy entire businesses, or 80 percent or greater interest in businesses, partly for the tax reasons you mentioned, and frankly, we like it better. We just, it’s the kind of business we would like to build if we had our absolute druthers on it.

Counter to that is we can usually get more for our money in wonderful businesses, in terms of buying little pieces of them in the market, because the market is far more inefficient in pricing businesses than is the negotiated market.

You’re not going to buy any bargains, and I mean, you shouldn’t even approach the idea of buying a bargain in a negotiated purchase.

You want to buy it from people who are going to run it for you. You want to buy it from people who are intelligent enough to price their business properly, and they are. I mean, that’s the way things are.

The market does not do that. The market — in the stock market, you get a chance to buy businesses at foolish prices, and that is why we end up with a lot of money in marketable securities.

If we absolutely had our choice, we would own a group of — we would own three times the number of businesses we own outright.

We’re unlikely to get that opportunity over time, but periodically we’ll get the chance to find something that fits our test.

And in between we will, when the market offers us the right prices, we will buy more, either businesses we already own pieces of, or we’ll buy one or two new ones. Something’s usually going on.

There are tax advantages to owning all of them, but that’s more than offset by the fact that you’ll never get a chance to buy the whole Coca-Cola Company or the whole Gillette company.

I mean, businesses like that, sensational businesses, are just not available. Sometimes you get a chance to make a sensible purchase in the market of such businesses.

Charlie?

CHARLIE MUNGER: Well, I think that’s exactly right. And if you stop to think about it, if a hundred percent of a business is for sale, you’ve got — the average corporate buyer is being run by people who have the mindset of people buying with somebody else’s money. And we have the mindset of people buying with our own money.

And there’s also a class of buyers for a hundred percent of businesses who are basically able and assured financial promoters. I’m talking about the leveraged buyout funds and so on.

And those people tend to have the upside, but not the downside, in the private arrangements they’ve made with their investors. And naturally, they tend to be somewhat optimistic.

And so we have formidable competition when we try and buy a hundred percent of businesses.

WARREN BUFFETT: Most managers are better off, in terms of their personal equation, if they’re running something larger. And they’re also better off if they’re running something larger and more profitable.

But the first condition alone will usually leave them better off. We’re only better off if we’re running something that’s more profitable. We also like it if it’s larger, too.

But our equation, actually, our personal equation is actually different than a great many managers in that respect. Even if that didn’t operate, I think most managers psychically would enjoy running something larger. And if you can pay for it with other people’s money, I mean, that gets pretty attractive.

You know, how much would — and let’s just say you’re a baseball fan — well, how much would you pay to own whatever your hometown, the Yankees?

You might pay more if you were writing a check on someone else’s bank account than if you were writing it on your own. It’s been known to happen. (Laughter)

And in corporate America, animal spirits are there. And those are our competitors on buying entire businesses. In terms of buying securities, most managers don’t even think about it.

It’s very interesting to me, because they’ll say that — they’ll have somebody else manage their money in terms of portfolio securities. Well, all that is is a portfolio of businesses.

And I’ll say, “Well, why don’t you pick out your own portfolio?” And they’ll say, “That’s much too difficult.”

And then some guy will come along with some business that they never heard of a week before and give them some figures and a few projections, and the guy thinks he knows enough to buy that business. It’s very puzzling to me sometimes.

49. Revealing Wesco’s estimated intrinsic value was a “quirk”
WARREN BUFFETT: Zone 4.

Could you hold it a little closer to you? I can’t hear too well.

It’s hard to hear. Is the mic on there?

AUDIENCE MEMBER: It’s on.

WARREN BUFFETT: OK, I can hear that fine.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Let’s try it one more time. Dan Raider (PH) —

WARREN BUFFETT: Got it.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: — San Mateo, California. This is a question for Mr. Munger.

In your most recent letter to shareholders in Wesco’s annual report, you calculated the intrinsic value of Wesco at about $100 per share, and compared that to the then-current market price of Wesco of about $130 per share.

In the same letter, you stated that it was unclear whether at then-current market prices Berkshire or Wesco presented a better value to prospective purchasers.

In light of that, would you compare the intrinsic value of Berkshire to its current market price?

CHARLIE MUNGER: Well, the answer to that is no. (Laughter)

Berkshire has never calculated intrinsic value per share and reported it to the shareholders, and Wesco never did before this year.

We changed our mind at Wesco because we really thought some of the buyers had gone a little crazy, and a lot of things were being said to prospective shareholders that, in our opinion, were unwise.

And we don’t really like attracting — even though we’ve had nothing to do with it — we don’t like attracting people in at high prices that may not be wise.

So we departed from our long precedent, and we did in the Wesco report make an estimate of intrinsic value per share.

But we’re not changing the general policy. That was just a one-time quirk.

WARREN BUFFETT: Well, and also I think it’s true that the Wesco intrinsic value per share can be estimated by anyone within fairly close limits.

It just isn’t that complicated because there aren’t a number of businesses there that have values different than carrying values, or where they are, they’re all footnoted, in terms of numbers.

So it would be almost impossible to come up with numbers that are significantly different than the number Charlie put in there.

Berkshire has assets that, number one of which would be the insurance business, that it’s clear have very significant excess values, but one person might estimate those at maybe three times what somebody else would estimate them at. That’s less true of our other businesses, but it’s still true in a way, so that Berkshire’s range would be somewhat greater.

And as Charlie — we basically — we don’t want to disappoint people, but we also don’t want to disappoint ourselves. But we have our own yardsticks for what we think is doable.

We try to convey that as well as we can to the people who are partners in the business, and I think that we saw some things being published about Wesco that simply might have led to, and probably did lead to, some expectations that simply weren’t consonant with our own personal expectations. And that leaves us uncomfortable.

50. Risk is “inextricably wound up” in how long an asset is held
WARREN BUFFETT: Zone 5.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Hello, my name is Charles Pyle (PH) from Ann Arbor, Michigan.

I’d like to ask you to expound on your view of risk in the financial world, and I ask that against the background of what appear to be a number of inconsistencies between your view of risk and the conventional view of risk.

I mention that in a recent article you pointed out inconsistency in the use of beta as a measure of risk, which is a common standard.

And I mention that derivatives are dangerous, and yet you feel comfortable playing at derivatives through Salomon Brothers. And betting on hurricanes is dangerous, and yet you feel comfortable playing with hurricanes through insurance companies.

So it appears that you have some view of risk that’s inconsistent with what would appear on the face of it to be the conventional view of risk.

WARREN BUFFETT: Well, we do define risk as the possibility of harm or injury. And in that respect we think it’s inextricably wound up in your time horizon for holding an asset.

I mean, if your risk is that you’re going — if you intend to buy XYZ Corporation at 11:30 this morning and sell it out before the close today, I mean, that is, in our view, that is a very risky transaction. Because we think 50 percent of the time you’re going to suffer some harm or injury.

If you have a time horizon on a business, we think the risk of buying something like Coca-Cola at the price we bought it at a few years ago is essentially, is so close to nil, in terms of our perspective holding period. But if you asked me the risk of buying Coca-Cola this morning and you’re going to sell it tomorrow morning, I say that is a very risky transaction.

Now, as I pointed out in the annual report, it became very fashionable in the academic world, and then that spilled over into the financial markets, to define risk in terms of volatility, of which beta became a measure.

But that is no measure of risk to us. The risk, in terms of our super-cat business, is not that we lose money in any given year. We know we’re going to lose money in some given day, that is for certain. And we’re extremely likely to lose money in a given year.

Our time horizon of writing that business, you know, would be at least a decade. And we think the probability of losing money over a decade is low. So we feel that, in terms of our horizon of investment, that that is not a risky business. And it’s a whole lot less risky than writing something that’s much more predictable.

Interesting thing is that using conventional measures of risk, something whose return varies from year to year between plus-20 percent and plus-80 percent is riskier, as defined, than something whose return is 5 percent a year every year.

We just think the financial world has gone haywire in terms of measures of risk.

We look at what we do — we are perfectly willing to lose money on a given transaction, arbitrage being an example, any given insurance policy being another example. We are perfectly willing to lose money on any given transaction.

We are not willing to enter into transactions in which we think the probability of doing a number of mutually independent events, but of a similar type, has an expectancy of loss. And we hope that we are entering into our transactions where our calculations of those probabilities have validity.

And to do so, we try to narrow it down. There are a whole bunch of things we just won’t do because we don’t think we can write the equation on them.

But we, basically, Charlie and I by nature are pretty risk-averse. But we are very willing to enter into transactions —

We, if we knew it was an honest coin, and someone wanted to give us seven-to-five or something of the sort on one flip, how much of Berkshire’s net worth would we put on that flip?

Well we would — it would sound like a big number to you. It would not be a huge percentage of the net worth, but it would be a significant number. We will do things when probabilities favor us.

Charlie?

CHARLIE MUNGER: Yeah, we, I would say we try and think like Fermat and Pascal as if they’d never heard of modern finance theory.

I really think that a lot of modern finance theory can only be described as disgusting. (Laughter)

51. Buffett favors a “steeply progressive” consumption tax
WARREN BUFFETT: Zone 6.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Good morning, I’m Paul Miller (PH) from Kansas City, Missouri. I’ve got two questions.

First, not too long ago, I believe it was Fortune Magazine that ran an article regarding personal tax rates.

And at the risk of misquoting you, my recollection is that you favored higher personal rates, rates even higher than those proposed by those in Washington.

The second question is, I’ve heard Berkshire Hathaway referred to as nothing more than a high-priced rich man’s mutual fund. Would you care to comment on that also?

WARREN BUFFETT: Well, on tax rates, if you ask me what I personally favor, I personally favor a steeply progressive consumption tax.

That has a little more attention being paid to it now, although the “steeply progressive” might be modified by most of the advocates of the consumption tax, maybe to “mildly progressive” or something of the sort.

There’s a Nunn-Domenici proposal along that line, and there are other people that are talking about it more. It may be examined by the new Kerrey-Danforth Commission, of which we’ve got a member in the audience.

But I believe, in one way or another, I believe in progressive taxes. So I am not shocked in terms of my own situation, and I don’t think Charlie is particularly, about having a progressive income tax.

Although, like I say, I think society would run better over time if it were a progressive consumption tax instead.

Do you want the comment on the tax situation, Charlie?

CHARLIE MUNGER: Well, I think there is a point at which income taxes become quite counterproductive if their progression is too high. But I don’t think we’re there yet.

WARREN BUFFETT: We think — at least I think — I’m extraordinarily well treated by this society, and I think most people with high incomes are. I think if you transported most of them to Bangladesh or Peru or something, they would find out how much of it is them and how much is the society.

And I think there’s nothing better than a market system, in terms of motivating people and in terms of producing the goods and services that the society wants.

But I do think it gets a little out of whack, in terms of what the productivity may be of an outstanding teacher compared to somebody who is good at figuring out the intrinsic value of businesses.

I don’t have a better system on the income side, but I think society should figure out some way to make those who are particularly blessed, in a sense, that have talents that get paid off enormously in a market system, to give back a fair amount of that to the society that produces that.

52. Berkshire isn’t a “rich man’s mutual fund”
WARREN BUFFETT: The question about Berkshire being I think it was, was it rich man’s mutual fund or something like that?

We don’t look at it that way at all. We look at it as a collection of businesses, and ideally we would own all of those businesses.

So it’s, to the extent that a mutual fund owns stock in a lot of companies and diversifies among businesses and we try to own a lot of businesses ourselves, I guess that’s true. But I guess you could say the same thing of General Electric, or an operation like that.

We are more prone to buy pieces of businesses than the typical manager, but we are trying to do, in a sense, the same thing Jack Welch is trying to do at General Electric, which is try to own a number of first-class businesses.

He gets to put the imprint of his own management, which I think is very good, on those businesses, and we are more hands-off, both in the businesses we own outright and in the ones that we own pieces of.

But we’re going at it the same way. And General Electric has been very successful under Jack’s leadership, and doing it his way.

We think, in terms of what we bring to the game, and the problems of putting money to work all the time, that our own system will work best for us.

Charlie?

CHARLIE MUNGER: Yeah, I’ve got nothing to add to that.

53. Don’t need interest rate outlook to value companies
WARREN BUFFETT: Zone 1.

CHRISTOPHER DAVIS: Hello, I’m Christopher Davis from New York City.

I’m interested in that many of the holdings of Berkshire are in industries that are perceived as interest rate-sensitive industries, including Wells Fargo, Salomon, Freddie Mac, even GEICO. And yet you have an admitted sort of ambivalence towards interest rates or changes in interest rates.

And it therefore seems that you don’t feel that those changes affect the fundamental attractiveness of those businesses.

I thought maybe you could share your thoughts on what you see in these businesses that the investment community as a whole is ignoring.

WARREN BUFFETT: Well, the value of every business, the value of a farm, the value of an apartment house, the value of any economic asset, is 100 percent sensitive to interest rates, because all you are doing in investing is transferring some money to somebody now in exchange for what you expect the stream of money to be, to come in, over a period of time. And the higher interest rates are, the less that present value is going to be.

So every business, by its nature, whether it’s Coca-Cola or Gillette or Wells Fargo, is in its intrinsic valuation, is a hundred percent sensitive to interest rates.

Now, the question as to whether a Wells Fargo or a Freddie Mac or whatever it may be, whether their business gets better or worse internally, as opposed to the valuation process, because of higher interest rates, that is not easy to figure.

I mean, GEICO, if they write their insurance business at the same underwriting ratio — in other words they have the same loss and expense experience relative to premiums — they benefit by higher interest rates, obviously, over time, because they’re a float business, and the float is worth more to them.

Now, externally, getting back to the valuation part, the present value of those earnings also becomes less then.

But the present value of Coke’s earnings becomes less in a higher interest rate environment.

Wells Fargo, it’s — whether they earn more or less money under any given interest rate scenario is hard to figure. There may be one short-term effect and there may be another long-term effect.

So I do not have to have a view on interest rates — and I don’t have a view on interest rates — to make a decision as to an insurance business, or a mortgage guarantor business, or a banking business, or something of the sort, relative to making a judgment about Coke or Gillette.

Charlie?

CHARLIE MUNGER: I’ve got nothing to add.

54. “Retroactive” insurance is small part of our business
WARREN BUFFETT: Zone two?

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Hello, I’m Benjamin Baron (PH) from New York.

Could you speak about your insurance business a little bit? And especially the retroactive policies you’ve been writing.

WARREN BUFFETT: Can we speak about the — you say the reinsurance business?

CHARLIE MUNGER: Retroactive —

WARREN BUFFETT: I heard the retroactive part, but the first part.

BENJAMIN BARON: The reinsurance and the retroactive, and also the market in Bermuda and how you see it as one of your potential markets.

WARREN BUFFETT: I think the retroactive market is, what’s called “retroactive insurance,” has been pretty well eliminated by developments in accounting.

So I would not expect us to really have any volume in retroactive-type policies.

Now, when we write workers’ comp with a policy holder dividend, in effect that’s a retroactive policy. But that’s a relative — that’s small part of Berkshire’s business.

Did I answer what you were driving at there?

AUDIENCE MEMBER: (Inaudible)

WARREN BUFFETT: Pardon me?

AUDIENCE MEMBER: (Inaudible)

WARREN BUFFETT: Did you get that, Charlie?

55. “You don’t find out who’s been swimming naked until the tide goes out”
CHARLIE MUNGER: Just comment on the development of the insurance business in Bermuda.

WARREN BUFFETT: Oh, Bermuda is simply a, you know, a new competitor. They’re not so new, I mean, there’ve been companies in Bermuda before.

But in the last 15 months, 18 months, maybe there’s been 4 billion-plus raised. And because, for tax reasons — maybe other reasons as well, but certainly for tax reasons — that capacity has been concentrated in Bermuda-based, Bermuda-domiciled reinsurers.

But essentially there’s no great difference between that type of competition and other reinsurers competition, except for the fact that that capacity is new and the money’s just been raised, and so there may be some greater pressure on the managers of those businesses to go out and write business promptly than on somebody that’s been around for 50 years.

But it’s no plus for us any time new capacity enters any business that we’re in, and that certainly goes for the reinsurance business.

Reinsurance business, by its nature, will be a business in which some very stupid things are done en masse periodically. I mean, you can be doing dumb things and not know it in reinsurance, and then all of a sudden wake up and find out, you know, the money is gone.

And it’s what people have found out — and I used that line in the report a year ago — it’s what people have found out that were speculating on bonds with (inaudible) margins recently, that, you know, you don’t find out who’s been swimming naked until the tide goes out. And — (laughter) — essentially that’s what happens in reinsurance. You don’t, you really don’t find out who’s been swimming naked until the wind blows at them.

56. When cash “piles up,” it’s not through choice
WARREN BUFFETT: Zone 3.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: I’m Whitney Anderson (PH) from Miami, Florida. And my question is, right now, we are reading about various analysts and how you should, in their individual opinion, adjust your more cash, more stocks, more bonds because of …

How does Berkshire Hathaway feel about times of relative financial insecurity? Do you arrange for more cash reserves looking forward to a time when you might be able to buy? Or do you go along your path?

WARREN BUFFETT: I think the question is do we sort of get into asset allocation by maintaining given levels of cash, depending on some kind of outlook or something of the sort?

We don’t really think that way at all. If we have cash, it’s because we haven’t found anything intelligent to do with it that day, in the way of buying into the kind of businesses we like.

And when we can’t find anything for a while, the cash piles up. But that’s not through choice, that’s because we’re failing at what we essentially are trying to do, which is to find things to buy, and —

We make no attempt to guess whether cash is going to be worth more three months from now or six months from now or a year from now.

So it is — you will never see — we don’t have any meetings of any kind anyway at Berkshire, but we would never have an asset allocation meeting. We would — (laughter) — keep looking. I mean, Charlie’s looking, I’m looking. Some of our managers are looking.

We’re looking for things to buy that meet our tests, and if we showed no cash or short-term securities at year-end, we would love it, because it would mean that we’d found ways to employ the money in ways that we like.

I think I would have to admit that if we have a lot of money around, we are a little dumber than usual. I mean, it tends to make you careless.

And I would say that the best purchases are usually made when you have to sell something to raise the money to get them, because it just raises the bar a little bit that you jump over in the mental decisions.

But we have, I don’t know what we’ll show, but certainly well over a billion dollars of cash around, and that’s not through choice. That is a — you can look at that as an index of failure on the part of your management.

And we will be happy when we can buy businesses, or small pieces of businesses, that use up that money.

57. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac as investments
WARREN BUFFETT: Zone 4.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Gentlemen, my name is Richard Sercer from Tucson, Arizona.

I understand that 40 percent of all home mortgages have been securitized by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the duopoly.

I would, at the risk of asking you for a projection, since you’ve talked about projections before, I’d be interested in understanding what you think will happen to that market share over time for this duopoly. Thank you.

WARREN BUFFETT: Well, the answer to that doesn’t involve much of a prediction. That market share is essentially certain to go up.

That doesn’t mean that those are wonderful businesses to buy, but the market share is essentially certain to go up because the economics that those two entities possess, compared to other ways of intermediating money between investors and people who want to borrow, no one else has those economics.

So what holds the share of Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae down is the fact that they are only allowed to loan roughly $200,000 on any mortgage. That’s a limiting factor. It’s probably been a good thing for them that it has been a limiting factor, but they are shut out of part of the market.

But the market that they are in, they essentially have economics that other people can’t touch for intermediating money, including the savings and loan business that we were in.

We had a business that intermediated money, went out and got it from depositors and lent it to people who wanted to borrow on a home.

Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae do it the same way. They don’t do it exactly the same way, but they perform the same function. And they could do it so much more cheaply than we could do it by having branches or anything of the sort and paying the insurance fee we paid.

They’re going to get the business. They should get the business. And so their market share will grow.

Charlie?

CHARLIE MUNGER: Well, I think that’s right. (Laughter)

WARREN BUFFETT: You’re doing great. (Laughter)

58. Increased information speed doesn’t affect our decisions
WARREN BUFFETT: Zone 5.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Good morning, I’m Sarah Pruitt (PH) from Milwaukee, Wisconsin.

And I wondered if you feel that the speed with which information is available and disseminated today has affected your business-buying decision process. And do you believe that speed has caused you to miss opportunities?

WARREN BUFFETT: Question about seas expanding?

CHARLIE MUNGER: No. Does the speed of information today affect our decision-making process?

WARREN BUFFETT: No, we — I would say that we perform about like we were doing 30 or 40 years ago.

I mean — (laughter) — we read annual reports.

It isn’t the — the speed of information really doesn’t make any difference to us. It’s the processing and finally coming to some judgment that actually has some utility, that is, that it’s a judgment about the price of a business or a part of a business, a security, versus what it’s essentially worth.

And none of that involves anything to do, really, with quick information. It involves getting good information.

But usually that — it’s not — we’re not looking for needles in haystacks or anything of the sort. You know, we like haystacks, not needles, basically. And we want it to shout at us.

And I would say that, well, virtually everything we’ve done has been reading public reports, and then maybe asking questions around to ascertain trade positions or product strengths or something of that sort.

But we never have to — we can make decisions very fast. I mean, we get called on a business — or we can make up our mind whether we’re interested in two or three minutes. That takes no time. We may have to do a little checking on a few things subsequently.

But we don’t need to get — I can’t think of anything where we really need lots of price data or things like that extremely fast to make any decisions.

We’ve got good management information systems in our operating businesses, but that’s just another — that’s a question of keeping inventories where they should be and all of that sort of thing.

I don’t think the invest — I think you could be in someplace where the mails were delayed three weeks, and the quotations were delayed three weeks, and I think you could do just fine in investing.

59. Why a stock buyback is unlikely
WARREN BUFFETT: Zone 6.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: James Pan (PH), New York City. I have a two-parter question.

One, do you think the stock price of Berkshire Hathaway is trading within 15 percent of its intrinsic value currently?

And two, if you think Berkshire Hathaway is undervalued with the amount of cash you have on your balance sheet, would you consider a buyback?

WARREN BUFFETT: The answer about a buyback is that we generally have felt that market conditions that would make Berkshire attractively priced is probably going to make other things even more attractively priced, because we think our shareholders are more rational than the shareholders of many companies.

It’s more likely that we will find some wonderful business at a silly price than we will find Berkshire at a silly price as we go along. So — (applause) that tends to eliminate repurchases.

But it doesn’t rule them out, but it explains why the circumstances will not arise very often where repurchases would make good sense.

60. Why we don’t estimate our intrinsic value
WARREN BUFFETT: In terms of giving you a number on intrinsic value, I don’t want to spoil your fun. I mean, you really should work that one out for yourself. (Laughter)

Charlie is the expert on intrinsic —

Do you have any comment for him, Charlie?

CHARLIE MUNGER: Well, your attitude on that subject reminds me of a famous headmaster who used to address the graduating class every year. And he’d say, “You know,” he says, “Five percent of you people are going to end up criminals.” And he says, “I know exactly who you are.” (Laughter)

And he said, “But I’m not going to tell you, because it would deprive your lives of a sense of excitement.” (Laughter)

If you stop to think about it, the companies that constantly told their shareholders what the intrinsic value was were the real estate holding companies in corporate form.

And I must say, that the amount of folly and misbehavior that crept into that process was disgusting. We would be just associating with a bad group if we were to change our ways.

WARREN BUFFETT: Bill Zeckendorf Sr. I think was probably the first one to do that, with Webb and Knapp back in the late ’50s. I still have those annual reports. And he would announce, you know, like, to eight decimal places what the intrinsic value of Webb and Knapp was. And he did it right till the day they filed for Chapter 11. (Laughter)

CHARLIE MUNGER: I remember that well, because somebody said that he fell into bankruptcy. And somebody else said, “How can you fall off a pancake?” (Laughter)

WARREN BUFFETT: Beware of people that give you a lot of numbers about their businesses. I mean, in terms of projections or valuations or that sort of thing.

We try to give you all of the numbers that we would use ourselves in making our own calculations of value.

We really — if you read the Berkshire reports, you essentially — you have all the information that Charlie and I would use in making a decision about the security.

And if there’s anything really lacking in that respect, you know, we would actually — we would truly appreciate hearing from you, because we want to have that kind of information in the report. But then we want you to make the calculation.

But we’ve stuck, I mean, that material, for example, on the float in the insurance business, we consider that quite relevant, obviously, because we use up almost a page printing it. It’s pretty serious stuff at Berkshire. (Laughter)

But that is relevant. I mean, your interpretation may be different than mine or Charlie’s, but those are important numbers.

And we could give you a lot of baloney about satisfied policyholders, you know, in Lincoln, Nebraska. It wouldn’t tell you a thing about what the company’s worth — and have pictures of them, and happy, you know, receiving the check from the agent and all of that. (Laughter)

We’re not going to do that.

61. Buffett on Peter Lynch
WARREN BUFFETT: Zone 1.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Mike Macy (PH) from Indianapolis.

I have really enjoyed reading your annual letters and your annual report, and I’ve gone back and read all of the older ones, too. They’re terrific.

I have also enjoyed reading the two books by Peter Lynch, and I see a lot of commonalities between the two of you, the way you think, your philosophy, et cetera.

I’d certainly appreciate it if you’d make a few comments on what you think of Peter Lynch, the things he says in his two books, and the advice that he gives to investors. Thank you.

WARREN BUFFETT: Well, I know Peter. I don’t know him well, but we’ve played bridge together in Omaha as a matter of fact.

I like him personally, and obviously he has an outstanding record. And he has written those two books, which have been bestsellers, about his investment philosophy. I don’t really have anything — you know, I’m not going to embroider on his.

There’s certainly a fair amount of overlap. There’s some difference.

Peter, obviously, likes to diversify a lot more than I do. He owns more stocks than the names of companies I can remember. I mean, but that’s Peter. (Laughter)

And, you know, I’ve said in investing, in the past, that there’s more than one way to get to heaven. And there isn’t a true religion in this, but there’s some very useful religions.

And Peter’s got one, and I think we’ve got one that’s useful, too. And there is a lot of overlap.

But I would not do as well if I tried to do it the way Peter does it, and he probably wouldn’t do as well if he tried to do it exactly the way I’d do it.

I like him personally very much. He’s a high-grade guy.

62. We’ll only write insurance when prices make sense
WARREN BUFFETT: Zone 2.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Mr. Buffett, Mr. Munger, my name is Dave Lankes (PH). I’m a senior editor at Business Insurance Magazine.

A two-part question for you. Can you explain a little bit regarding your primary insurance operations? What drove up written premiums by more than 50 percent last year, and if you expect that to continue this year?

And then regarding your earlier comments on the stupid things reinsurers can do en masse, can you explain what potential pitfalls that the new cat facilities in Bermuda will have to avoid that you feel Berkshire Hathaway won’t fall into?

WARREN BUFFETT: Well, the first question about our primary insurance figures, you’ll find it way in the back someplace. But they’re a little distorted because we bought Central States Indemnity, what would it be, late in the year ’92. So there’s a lot more premium volume in there for Central States in ’93 than there was in ’92.

Our basic — National Indemnity’s basic insurance, which is commercial, auto, and general liability, premium volume was fairly flat, the Homestate operation fairly flat, Cypress up somewhat. But those numbers were not anything like the changes —

So our business last year, pro forma for including Central States Indemnity for all of ’92, would not have shown a dramatic change. There really hasn’t been much happening in our primary business, except that it’s been run, it’s done very well, but it is not growing or exploding. And that’s true this year as well as last year.

It’s a good business. And it could grow in certain kinds of markets very substantially, but it is not growing in this market, and it did not grow last year, although its underwriting was very good.

In the reinsurance business, I think, essentially, the difference in our reinsurance business from many others, you know — it doesn’t include them all in a place like Bermuda — is essentially the difference that may exist in our operations and securities versus other people.

We will offer reinsurance at any time in very large quantities at prices we think make sense. But we won’t do business if we don’t think it makes sense, just like we will buy securities, to the extent of the cash we have available, if they make sense. But we have no interest in being in the stock market per say just to be in it. We want to own securities that make sense to us.

I think for most managements, if the only thing they’re in is the reinsurance business, they may like it better when prices make sense, but they will, I think they will be prone to do quite a bit of business when prices don’t make sense as well, because there’s no alternative, except to give the money back to the owners. And that is not something that most managements, you know, do somersaults over. (Laughter)

So, I think we are in a favored position, essentially being — having the flexibility of capital allocation that lets us take the lack of business with a certain equanimity that most managements probably can’t, because of their sole focus on the business.

Rates will get silly, in all likelihood, after a period when nothing much happens, when you’ve had a couple of years of good experience.

We price to what we think is exposure. We don’t price to experience. I mean, the fact that there was no big hurricane last year — I forget the name of the one that was coming in at North Carolina and then veered out essentially — but to us, it has nothing to do with the rates next year whether that hurricane actually came in in a big way or veered out into the Atlantic again. I mean, we are pricing to exposure.

And everyone says that, but the market tends to price and respond to experience, and generally to recent experience. That’s why all the retrocessional operations in London, you know, in the spiral, went busted, because they priced, in our view, they priced to experience rather than to exposure.

It’s very hard not to do that, to be there year after year with business coming by and investors expecting this of you and not do that.

But we will never knowingly do that. We may get influenced subconsciously in some way to do that, but we will not do that any more than we will accept stock market norms as being the proper way for us to invest money and equities.

Basically, when you lay out money or accept insurance risks, you really have to think for yourself. You cannot let the market think for you.

Charlie?

CHARLIE MUNGER: Yeah, I think Berkshire is basically a very old-fashioned kind of a place. And it tries to exert discipline to stay old-fashioned.

And I don’t mean old-fashioned stupid, I mean, you know, the eternal verity, so to speak, basic mathematics, you know, basic horse sense, basic fear, basic discriminations regarding human nature, all very old-fashioned. And if you just do that with a certain amount of discipline, I think it’s likely to work out quite well.

63. Praise from Sandy Gottesman
WARREN BUFFETT: Zone 3.

DAVID GOTTESMAN: David Gottesman from New York.

It’s no wonder that this meeting draws stockholders from all over the country. And despite the talk about age today, I’m happy to say this meeting gets better every year.

Berkshire stands unique in American business as a company whose name has become synonymous with management excellence.

Unlike many American corporations, we, as stockholders, don’t have to worry about reorganizations, large write-offs, massive restructurings, overstated earnings, and overpaid executives with strategic visions.

Instead, year in and year out, we enjoy the benefits of the common sense and brilliance of Charlie and Warren. (APPLAUSE)

WARREN BUFFETT: What did you say your name was? (Laughter)

DAVID GOTTESMAN: I want to add to that, to say nothing of your good humor.

It’s easy to take such consistently outstanding results for granted, but we in this room are the direct beneficiaries of their efforts.

By our presence here today, we show our appreciation to them for their exceptional performance. But we can also demonstrate in another way. I would like to suggest we give them a rousing hand of applause for a job well done. Thank you. (APPLAUSE)

SYNC VIDEO TO PARAGRAPH
WARREN BUFFETT: Thank you. That was Sandy Gottesman. We’ve worked together for 30-odd years, and he’s finally got that down. I appreciate that, Sandy. (Laughter)

64. Brief adjournment
WARREN BUFFETT: With that, we will adjourn. And anyone who wants to stay around, we’ll reconvene in 15 minutes, and then we’ll be here till about 1:15.
