It has certain, very important, advantages and economic strengths and it has some weaknesses. And you have to suss those, in deciding where it’ll be in the year 2000 or 2005.

And we think that the management of American Express thinks well about the question of how to — how you keep the card special in certain situations. And they’ve reacted to the merchant backlash for higher discount fees, I think, in an intelligent way.

So, we’ll see how it all plays out. But the key — IDS, which has now been renamed, but is a very big part of American Express — it accounts for close to a third of their earnings — but the real key will be how the card does over time.

Charlie?

CHARLIE MUNGER: Nothing to add.

17. “Corruption won” in stock option accounting rule
WARREN BUFFETT: Zone 5?

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Hi, my name is Philip King (PH) from San Francisco.

And my question has to do with how the FASB has caved in on the stock option proposal.

And the people opposed to the proposal argue that it would hurt capital formation for companies and that the cost of stock options is already reflected in shares outstanding, in fully diluted calculations.

And I was curious, what is your feelings about what’s happened?

WARREN BUFFETT: Well, as those of you have followed this issue — FASB did cave, and they were — they hated it. I mean, they knew they were right. Matter of fact, most of the, what are now, I guess, the big six auditing firms, many years ago, sided with the position.

But in my opinion, the auditing firms caved to their clients, in that respect.

In terms of capital formation, I would argue that the most intelligent form of capital formation follows from the most accurate form of accounting.

I mean, it — if all the companies with — whose names began with A through M didn’t have to count depreciation and all the ones with N through Z did, or something, you know, that might help in capital formation for companies that were — had names with A thru M. And incidentally, they probably all change their names.

But I don’t think that bad accounting is an aid to capital formation. In fact, I think probably over time, it distorts capital formation.

Because if we were to pay all of the shareholders with — I mean, all of the people who worked for Berkshire Hathaway — in stock, and therefore record no wage expense, you know, we might be able to sucker in a bunch of people who thought the earnings were real.

But that would not be a great step forward for capital formation, in my view.

I really think that — you know, I’ve talked privately to a number of managers about this. And they understand it. But they, you know, they prefer the present situation. And they used a lot of muscle in Washington many years ago.

And I think I have this authenticated now. This fellow — mathematics professor — sent me some material after I’d written this. I try to get a little proof after the fact when I can.

I believe it was in the Indiana legislature, where a legislator introduced a bill to change the value of pi, the mathematical symbol pi, to three. Because he said that it was too difficult for the schoolchildren to work with this — (laughter) — complicated 3.14159.

And he was right. I mean, it was difficult. And I — and Congress, in connection with the stock option question, received all kinds of pressure to, in turn, pressure FASB and the SEC to not count stock option costs as part of compensation.

I’ve never met anybody that wanted to be compensated that felt that, if he received his present salary plus an option, he was not getting compensated more than if he just received a salary. So, he thought it was compensation.

And I will tell you that if we’d been issuing options over a period of time at Berkshire for things unrelated to the performance of the entire business, that we would’ve had a cost, perhaps measuring in the billions of dollars, whether it was recorded or not.

So, it goes back to Bishop Berkeley’s question of whether a tree that falls in the forest and doesn’t make a sound, you know, when — et cetera.

But it — I think it is — I really think that it makes you a bit of a cynic about American business when you see the extent to which a group has pressured — even to the extent of talking about financial — withdrawing financial support from the Financial Accounting Standards Board — the degree to which they’ve pressured people to make sure the value of pi stays at three instead of 3.14, simply because it was their own ox that was being gored a bit.

In any event, it’s — it looks like it’s all over now for some time. In fact, now they’re pressuring them to even weaken further the standards that have been set. So, self-interest is alive and well in corporate America.

Charlie?

CHARLIE MUNGER: Yeah, I think dishonor won. And I think that — I think it is quite important for a civilization to have sound engineering and good accounting.

And it is a very regrettable episode, leading politicians — leading venture capitalists.

I think to some extent, it’s an indictment of the educational system, that this thing could be so widely looked at, and so wrongly.

WARREN BUFFETT: It’s bad enough people want to cheat on their accounting. And they do cheat on their accounting. But to want it to be endorsed as the system —

CHARLIE MUNGER: Yeah.

WARREN BUFFETT: — is really kind of disgusting.

CHARLIE MUNGER: Yeah, corruption won.

WARREN BUFFETT: Well, put us down on undecided on that and we’ll move on to zone 6. (Laughter)

18. Why there’s no video of Berkshire meetings
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Good morning, Mr. Buffett, Mr. Munger, Mike Lee-Chin from Hamilton, Ontario.

Could you consider availing a videotape of this meeting to us, the shareholders?

CHARLIE MUNGER: I didn’t quite get that.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Would you consider availing this videotape of the shareholder — this particular shareholder meeting to us, the shareholders?

CHARLIE MUNGER: Distributing a videotape?

WARREN BUFFETT: A transcript or a videotape?

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Yes.

WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah, we’ve had that suggested a number of times. It’s a good suggestion, and we’ve considered it.

The thing we’re worried about, in connection with that, is discouraging attendance.

I mean, it — (laughter) — we’d hate to have two people here asking questions and then send it out to tens of thousands. So — (laughter) — in the end —

CHARLIE MUNGER: Particularly if it might make sales go down at the jewelry store.

WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. (Laughter and applause)

Since we were just attacking hypocrisy in American business, Charlie felt like he should add that to my comments. (Laughter)

But we — it’s a close call on that because we would like everybody —

Of course, we try to cover a great many subjects in the annual report. But we like the idea of the meeting — answering a lot of shareholders questions.

We don’t want to discourage attendance. And it’s fun to have everybody come in and ask questions.

And the chances are, if we had far fewer people, we would have, you know, far more — far fewer — good questions. So that the quality of the meeting is enhanced, I think, by having a lot of people come.

But you’ve come a long way, so I can understand why you might be interested in a transcript. (Laughs)

I apprentice that. Thank you.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: — or no. Is that a yes or a no?

WARREN BUFFETT: It’s — (Laughter)

CHARLIE MUNGER: It was a no.

WARREN BUFFETT: It’s a no.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: OK. (Applause)

WARREN BUFFETT: Most everything we say is a no. But we have various ways of getting there. (Laughter)

19. Berkshire meetings boost Borsheims’ sales
WARREN BUFFETT: OK. Zone 7 from the other room, I can see you.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Good morning, Mr. Buffett and Mr. Munger.

I was wondering if you could tell us what the sales at Borsheims were yesterday and how it compared to a year ago?

WARREN BUFFETT: Well, I can tell you how it compared to a year ago. They were 15 percent above a year ago. And a year ago it was 40-odd percent above the year before. And I forget how much that was before.

So, we keep setting records. But we haven’t announced any numbers. But it’s a pretty good size number. You’re a sporty crowd.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Thank you. (Laughter)

20. An “idiot” could successfully run Berkshire
WARREN BUFFETT: Zone 1?

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Good morning. My name is Patrick Terhune from Fort Lauderdale, Florida.

And first of all, I see, per your request, there are a lot of people who wore red in honor of the Cornhuskers. (Applause)

Of course, my team was the — or is the Miami Hurricanes. And I’ve got my green and orange on under my clothes. So — but if we were to lose, I’m glad we lost to Nebraska and Tom Osborne.

I’ve got a request for Warren and Charlie, and that is, recognizing that the value, both intrinsic and extrinsic, of Berkshire Hathaway, is the result of your combined skills in acquiring growth companies and with your prudent and expert investing of the company’s capital for growth, I’d like to know if you have a plan — a succession plan — to be executed in the event, God forbid, something happens to one or both of you, which would remove your input to the strategic decisions.

I sincerely hope you’re in the process of developing individuals to carry forward your collective visions and to manage the company’s resources as effectively and as profitably as is being done now.

WARREN BUFFETT: Well, I appreciate that question. And the answer is, obviously, we do care enormously about that because both Charlie and I — in addition to a lot of other reasons, but in — we both have a very significant percentage of our net worth in Berkshire.

And neither one of us has figured out how to sell it all exactly, you know, 15 minutes before we get hit by a truck. So, we will not have the jump on the rest of you.

And therefore, our continuing interest will go — financially — will go well, well beyond our deaths.

And it will — in terms of foundations or something like that, it will go to organizations that we care very much about having maximum resources available to.

So, we do have some plans. We don’t name names or anything of the sort.

It’s not quite as tough as you might think because we have a collection of fabulous businesses. Some of them owned totally, some of them owned in part.

And I don’t think razor blade sales or Coca-Cola sales are going to fall off dramatically the day Charlie or I die. It — we’ve got some great businesses. And then same is true of the wholly-owned businesses.

So the question is more that of allocating capital in the future. And you know, that’s a problem for Charlie and me right now, simply because of the size with — it’s not easy to find things to do that make sense with lots of money.

And sometimes a year will go by and we don’t find anything. And other times a year goes by, and we think we found something, but it turns out we were wrong.

So, it’s not easy. But we think we will have some very smart people working on that.

And we don’t think it will be the end of the world if they don’t find anything the first year, because the businesses will run very well.

We have a big advantage in that, as contrasted to virtually almost every other company, we, now and in the future, are willing — eager — to buy parts of wonderful businesses or all of them.

I mean, most managements have a — most investors are limited to buying parts of businesses. And most managers, psychologically, are geared to owning all of something that they can run themselves.

We — you know, it’s like, I think Woody Allen said some years ago, the advantage of being bisexual is it doubles your chances of a date on Saturday night. (Laughter)

And we can go either direction, in that respect. (Laughter)

And our successors will also. So very — Charlie, you want to add anything?

CHARLIE MUNGER: I think few business operations have ever been constructed to require so little continuing intelligence in corporate headquarters. (Laughter)

An idiot who was willing just to sit here would have a very good record long after the present incumbents were dead.

WARREN BUFFETT: I think that’s true.

CHARLIE MUNGER: Yeah. I think it would be a little better if Warren would keep alive, in terms of allocating the new capital. I don’t think we’ll easily replace Warren.

But, you know, we don’t have to keep getting rich at the same rate we have in the past. (Laughter)

WARREN BUFFETT: That’s a tie vote. (Laughter)

21. Decisions so obvious that exact numbers aren’t needed
WARREN BUFFETT: Zone 2?

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Hi, this —

WARREN BUFFETT: (Inaudible)

AUDIENCE MEMBER: — Keith Briar from San Francisco.

I have a question. When you’re valuing the companies and you discount back the future earnings that you talk about, how many years out do you generally go? And if you don’t go out a general number of years, how do you arrive at that time period?

WARREN BUFFETT: Well, that’s a very good question. And it’s — I mean, it’s the heart of investing or buying businesses, which we regard as the same thing, but —

And it is the framework in which we operate. I mean, we are trying to look at businesses in terms of what kind of cash can they produce, if we’re buying all of them, or will they produce, if we’re buying part of them. And there’s a difference. And then at what discount rate do we bring it back.

And I think your question was how far out do we look, and all that.

Despite the fact that we can define that in a very kind of simple and direct equation, you know, we are — we’ve never actually sat down and written out a set of numbers to relate that equation.

We do it in our heads, in a way, obviously. I mean, that’s what it’s all about.

But there is no piece of paper. And we never — there never was a piece of paper that shows what our calculation on Helzberg’s or See’s Candy or The Buffalo News was, in that respect.

So, it would be attaching a little more scientific quality to our analysis than there really is, if I gave you some gobbledygook about, “Well, we do it for 18 years and stick a terminal value on and do all of this.”

We are sitting in the office thinking about that question with each business or each investment. And we have discount rates, in a general way, in mind.

But we really like the decision to be obvious enough to us that it doesn’t require making a detailed calculation.

And it’s the framework. But it’s not applied in the sense that we actually fill in all the variables.

Is that a fair way of stating it, Charlie?

CHARLIE MUNGER: Yeah. Berkshire is being run the way Thomas Hunt Morgan, the great Nobel laureate, ran the biology department at Caltech.

He banned the Friden calculator, which was the computer of that era. And people said, “How can you do this? Every place else in Caltech, we have Friden calculators going everywhere.”

And he said, “Well, we’re picking up these great nuggets of gold just by organized common sense, and resources are short, and we’re not going to resort to any damn placer mining as long as we can pick up these major aggregations of gold.”

That’s the way Berkshire works. And I hope the placer mining era will never come.

Somebody once subpoenaed our staffing papers on some acquisition. And of course, not only did we not have any staffing papers, we didn’t have any staff. (Laughter and applause)

22. “Something will happen” and we want to be ready
WARREN BUFFETT: Zone 3?

AUDIENCE MEMBER: I’m Tom Morrow (PH) from Laguna Beach, California. And the question I have to ask pertains to the issuance of the new stock.

And again, as Charles mentioned, is there some potential gold mine out there that you have specifically in mind with the — some large acquisition that you have specifically in mind at this time, without revealing any strategic secrets?

WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. There are things we would like to do. Whether we ever get a chance to do them or not is another question. But you know, I will be surprised if, in the next five years, we haven’t used some preferred stock one time or another.

As I mentioned in the report, we had one last year that if we’d done it, it would’ve involved the issuance of maybe a billion dollars’ worth of — no, more than that, I’m sorry — a couple billion dollars’ worth of preferred.

That one isn’t going to happen, in my view. I mean, it — there’s one chance in a hundred it’ll — it could happen or something of the sort — but, probably, it isn’t going to happen.

On the other hand, we want to be prepared for it. Something will happen. That’s always been our experience.

You know, we have sat through some dry spells. And this is true in both the stock market and the acquisition business.

You know, I closed up the partnership in 1969 because there was nothing that made sense to do. And I’m glad I did because that situation prevailed in ’71 and ’2.

But in 1973 and ’4, you know, there were all kinds of things to do.

And that will happen from time to time. People will behave, particularly in markets, just as foolishly in the future as they have in the past. It’ll come at unexpected times. But we will get a chance to do something.

Now, that’s more of a cash-type purchase, obviously, in the market. But we will get a chance to use the preferred.

And we will try to think about big things. We may not find them. But Charlie and I, the larger something is, the more interested we are.

23. Big assets make float more flexible
WARREN BUFFETT: Zone 4.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Jim Moss (PH) from Los Angeles.

I was reading through your annual report. And to me, an eye-popping number in there was the amount of float in 1994, at a cost of less than zero — I think it was $3 billion.

And I was wondering if there are any restrictions on your investment of that money, or can that go into your marketable equity securities?

WARREN BUFFETT: The question relates to — we have that long table we put in — we introduced about four years ago or so in the annual report, that shows the amount of float and the cost of float.

And that’s a very important table. It — in terms of our operating businesses, that’s probably the most important piece of information in the report.

And that float is, as you noted, well over $3 billion now — last year, because of various favorable factors, including the fact that our super-cat business was favorable, but also, because our other insurance businesses did very well — amazingly well.

The cost of that float, which is money that we’re holding that eventually — does not belong to us, but will go to somebody else. The cost of that float was less than zero, and that is a very valuable asset.

And the question is, how much flexibility we have in investing that, which I think was the core of your question.

The answer is we have a lot of flexibility. We are not disadvantaged by that money being in float, as opposed to equity, really, in any significant way.

Now, if we had a very limited amount of equity and a very large amount of float, we would impose a lot of restrictions on ourselves as to how we would do it, because we would want to be very sure that we were in a position to distribute that float, in effect, to policyholders, or claimants, or whatever it may be at the time that was appropriate.

But we have so much net worth that, in effect, that float is just about as useful to us as equity money. And that means quite useful. It’s a big asset of Berkshire’s.

24. Not feeling threatened by Beardstown Ladies
WARREN BUFFETT: Let’s see, we’ve got zone 5.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Susan Scott (PH) from Madison, Wisconsin.

On a more serious note, are you beginning to feel threatened by the success of the Beardstown Ladies? (Laughter)

WARREN BUFFETT: Which lady?

CHARLIE MUNGER: I —

WARREN BUFFETT: Which lady was that? I —

CHARLIE MUNGER: I didn’t get it.

WARREN BUFFETT: I got everything except what lady that was.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: The Beardstown Ladies, the investment group?

WARREN BUFFETT: Oh, that group. Yeah, the best-seller. Yeah. I have not read that book. I hate to admit that to an audience of shareholders, that I —

This is a book that’s — I think it’s probably number, I don’t know, seven or eight or something like that on the Times best-seller list, and been up there for a couple of months now.

It’s a group — an investment group — that, apparently, is sharing with the world their secrets of success.

I’m always suspicious of people when they’re sharing with the world any great ideas on investments. But we are not threatened at the moment, no. (Laughter)

25. Economics of the moat and the castle
WARREN BUFFETT: Zone 6.

WARREN BUFFETT: Mike Assail (PH) from New York City.

In the mistake du jour section of the annual report, you mentioned a fundamental rule of economics that you missed. I’d like to know the two or three most important fundamental rules of economics you habitually get right.

In other words, what are the fundamental rules of economics you used to make money for Berkshire?

And I’m not talking about Ben Graham’s principles here, but rather, rules of economics which may be found in an economics textbook. Thank you.

WARREN BUFFETT: We — Yeah, we try to — I mean, we try to follow Ben’s principles, in terms of the attitude we bring toward both investing and in buying businesses.

But the most important thing you can — you know, what we’re trying to do is we’re trying to find a business with a wide and long-lasting moat around it, surround — protecting a terrific economic castle with an honest lord in charge of the castle.

And in essence, that’s what business is all about. I mean, you want to be the lord of the castle, yourself. In which case, you don’t worry about that last factor.

But what you’re trying to — what we’re trying to find is a business that, for one reason or another — it can be because it’s the low-cost producer in some area, it can be because it has a natural franchise because of surface capabilities, it could be because of its position in the consumers’ mind, it can be because of a technological advantage, or any kind of reason at all, that it has this moat around it.

And then our — then what we have to decide is — all moats are subject to attack in a capitalistic system, so everybody is going to try and — if you’ve got a big castle in there, people are going to be trying to figure out how to get to it.

And what we have to decide — and most moats aren’t worth a damn in, you know, in capitalism. I mean, that’s the nature of it. And it’s a constructive thing that that’s the case.

But we are trying to figure out what is keeping — why is that castle still standing? And what’s going to keep it standing or cause it not to be standing five, 10, 20 years from now. What are the key factors? And how permanent are they? How much do they depend on the genius of the lord in the castle?

And then if we feel good about the moat, then we try to figure out whether, you know, the lord is going to try to take it all for himself, whether he’s likely to do something stupid with the proceeds, et cetera. But that’s the way we look at businesses.

Charlie, you want to add anything?

CHARLIE MUNGER: Well, I think he wants it translated into the ordinary terms of economics. The honest lord is low agency cost. That’s the word in economics.

And the microeconomic business advantages are, by and large, advantages of scale — scale of market dominance, which can be a retailer that just has huge advantages in terms of buying cheaper and enjoying higher sales per square foot.

So you’re — by and large, you’re talking economies of scale. You can have scale of intelligence. In other words, you can have a lord with enough extra intelligence that he has a big advantage. So you’re — by and large, you’re talking scale advantages and low agency costs.

WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah, to some extent, Charlie and I try and distinguish between businesses where you have to have been smart once and businesses where you have to stay smart.

And, I mean, retailing is a good case of a business where you have to stay smart.

But you can — you are under attack all of the time. People are in your store. If you’re doing something successful, they’re in your store the next day trying to figure out what it is about your success that they can transplant and maybe add a little something on in their own situation. So, you cannot coast in retailing.

There are other businesses where you only have to be smart once, at least for a very long time. There was once a southern publisher who was doing very well with his newspaper. And someone asked him the secret of his success. And he said monopoly and nepotism. (Laughter)

And I mean, he wasn’t so dumb. I mean, he didn’t have any illusions about himself.

And if you had a big network of television affiliates station 30 years ago, there’s still a major difference between good management and bad management. I mean, a major difference.

But you could be a terrible manager and make a fortune, basically. Because the one decision to own the network TV affiliate overcame almost any deficiency that existed from that point forward.

And that would not be true if you were the first one to come up with some concept in retailing or something of the sort. I mean, you would have to be out there defending it every day.

Ideally, you know, is you want terrific management at a terrific business. And that’s what we look for.

But as we pointed out in the past, if you have to choose between the two, get a terrific business.

Charlie, any more?

CHARLIE MUNGER: No.

26. Compliments for Helzbergs of Kansas City
WARREN BUFFETT: Let’s see, zone 7, I believe is next?

VOICE: No questions from zone 7.

WARREN BUFFETT: OK. How about zone 1?

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Paul Miller (PH) from Kansas City.

First, I’d like to comment on your purchase of Kansas City-based Helzberg Jewelers. You commented about Barnett Helzberg and his — what he’s done, retailing-wise.

For those of us in Kansas City, you’ve also picked up Barnett and Shirley Helzberg, who are the first family in philanthropy in Kansas City.

And for the shareholders in this room, the Helzbergs are wonderful people. And to have them added to this group of companies says miles about Warren Buffett and that they pick companies based upon their management and their people.

So, kudos to Berkshire Hathaway for picking up the Helzbergs, and thanks to the Helzbergs for everything they’ve done to Kansas City. Now, my — (Applause)

WARREN BUFFETT: Appreciate that. (Applause)

27. Putting a value on the subsidiaries
AUDIENCE MEMBER: My question relates to value. We can look in the annual report, and we can all see the purchase of a Washington Post, for instance, for $10 million that has a value today of 420 million.

But discerning the value of the other consortium of non-publicly traded businesses, the Nebraska Furniture Marts, the Borsheims, et cetera — the value of their purchase price over the years versus their value today, how can we understand that value and how is it reflected in the annual reports?

WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah, well we try to — that’s a good question. We try to give you the information that we would want in answering that question, in the annual report.

Part of it, we do in those pages where we say it’s not according to GAAP accounting. But there’s a lot of useful information in there.

We’re not — we don’t stick a number on each company. But we try to give you enough information about the capital employ, the margins, and all of that sort of thing on the bigger businesses that you can make estimates that are probably just about as good as ours.

WARREN BUFFETT: Charlie and I would not need more information than is in the report to come up with a pretty good idea of what the controlled businesses are worth. And there’s no information we’re holding back that we think would be of any real importance in evaluating those businesses.

But you’re right, it’s a lot easier with marketable securities than it is — at least in terms of current numbers — than it is with the wholly-owned businesses.

The wholly-owned businesses, generally speaking, some of them are worth a whole lot more than we’ve — than they’re carried on the books for. And we feel pretty good about, essentially, all of them.

But they’re — they’ve turned out remarkably well, I would say that, over the years. And my guess is that they keep working pretty well.

We have managers in a number of those businesses here. I’m not going to introduce them all because we have so many that it would take a considerable period of time.

But you named The Washington Post. In the front row there, close to the front row, we have Don Keough, would you step up, of Coca-Cola? (Applause)

And we have Kay Graham for the Post. (Applause)

And Tom Murphy from Cap Cities. (Applause)

CHARLIE MUNGER: Is Paul Hazen here, too?

WARREN BUFFETT: And I’m going to try and do — well, there’s a whole bunch more. I don’t want to get — but I — but those three were sitting together and I was struck by the fact that if — those three combined, we have about 6 1/2 billion of profit in, so far. (Laughs)

So, I would say that that’s a — (Applause) —

Those are three businesses that have been fantastic. And like — I emphasize “so far” because we’d like to be able to name a bigger number in the future.

But we have a group of managers, both at the controlled companies and at the partly-owned companies, that have just created incredible value for Berkshire.

I mean, Charlie and I sit around and read the paper every day and a lot of magazines and things, watch OJ Simpson or whatever it may be. (Laughter)

And these people are out there creating a ton of value for us. So, we’re not going to change it. That —

28. Salomon Brothers culture clash
WARREN BUFFETT: Now, let’s see. I think, zone — is it zone 2 now? Or is it — yeah.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Hello. I’m Tim Palmer (PH) from Dillon, Colorado. I have a question for you regarding Salomon.

In the past week, there’s been an article in The New York Times, The Wall Street Journal, and I believe it’s Businessweek, that were rather unflattering, as far as what’s going on with the management and your selection. There seems to be a — somewhat of a cultural clash there.

I don’t know that to be a fact. But I wondered, number one, how you keep yourself open to bad news before it’s news.

And what is going on in Salomon there, the compensation plan, et cetera? How do you think that, culturally, is going to work out?

WARREN BUFFETT: Charlie and I are always — we’re more interested in bad news, always, than good news. We figure good news takes care of itself. And one — we only give a couple of instructions to people when they go to work for us.

And one of them is to think like an owner. And the second one is to just tell us the bad news immediately, because good news takes care of itself. And we can take bad news, but we don’t like bad news late.

So, I would say, in connection with Salomon, that there is, and has been, some culture clash. And there probably almost always would be a culture clash in a business where there is that amount of tension.

Whether it be the entertainment business, or the investment banking business, or the sports business, there’s going to be a certain amount of tension when — between compensation to the people that work there and compensation to the owners.

And I think there’s been some — that strain has existed at Salomon from the day I was first there and far before that. I mean, I — that was no surprise. It’s understandable.

You’re seeing a tension, actually, in the airline business between the people that work there and capital. And it’s produced terrible results in the airline business. And the people that work there have been able to — and I’m not talking about USAir specifically, although that’s a case. But it goes beyond that.

They have had contracts, which were, as I pointed out in the report, were executed in an earlier age, which, essentially, will not allow — in many cases — capital to receive any compensation. And that produces a lot of tension.

You don’t have contracts like that in the investment banking business or Wall Street, generally. But you have that same sort of tension.

And changing a culture around, A, takes time and, B, probably takes some change in people. I mean, I don’t think that’s a great surprise if you expect to do it.

I have — I don’t think you can find two better people than Bob Denham and Deryck Maughan. They’re smart, they’re high-grade, they’re willing to work very hard. And there will be people that buy into the arrangements they want to have. And there are people that won’t.

Not all of the people that have left, by a long shot, are leaving of their own volition, but most of them are. But some aren’t. I mean, there — Salomon lost a lot of money last year. And many of the people that have left were not responsible for some of those losses, but some of the people were.

So, that is not something where you announce names in the paper. But some people are leaving because they can make more money elsewhere. And some people are, maybe, leaving because we think we can make more money without them. (Laughter)

Charlie?

CHARLIE MUNGER: Yeah, I don’t think the tensions that have been commented on within Salomon are all that unusual. I think they pretty well exist everywhere on Wall Street. And even in the banks, which have tried to imitate Wall Street. I just think it comes with the territory.

WARREN BUFFETT: I don’t know what percentage of the Goldman Sachs partners left this year, but they had tensions that were produced, obviously, when they had a bad year. And they’re going to have a bad year from time to time. Everyone’s going to have a bad year.

But it — the partners — the general partners — of Goldman Sachs, in the year ended November 30th, 1994, did not do well. They may have not done anything at all. And they’d made some very big money in prior years. And they’ll probably make some very big money in subsequent years.

But in the year when they didn’t make any money, it was a lot of turnover. And maybe some of that turnover, also, was not all at the volition of the general partners that you read about leaving. I don’t know the facts in that case.

But there’s a certain amount of tension that exists in Wall Street under any circumstances. And when you aren’t making money, there’s a lot of tension.

29. Best edition of Ben Graham’s “Security Analysis”
WARREN BUFFETT: Zone 3?

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Yeah. My name is Michael Johnson. I’m a native to Omaha, and however, my family and I are Americans living abroad in Dhahran, Saudi Arabia.

My question is related to intrinsic value and Ben Graham’s “Security Analysis.”

I read a book earlier this year by Janet Lowe, who said that you were more toward the first or second editions of “Security Analysis” and not so much toward the fourth.

Yet, the fourth edition seemed to move more toward growth and value being kind of joined at the hip, like you’ve said in your last few annual reports.

And so, if I’m a person who’s always studying security analysis like I do — I think I spend more time with that — do you think I need to get those first editions? Or is the fourth edition kind of more of what you’ve moved toward, with your comments such as value and growth are joined at the hip?

WARREN BUFFETT: Janet Lowe is here, incidentally, today. She wrote a very good book on Ben Graham. I recommend that any of you that haven’t read it, go out and buy a copy.

The — I still prefer the — I think the second edition is cheaper to buy than the first edition, by some margin. And I think it’s basically the same book. So, I — that’s the one I would recommend. I — it isn’t because of differences on value and growth.

I just think that the reasoning is better and more consistent throughout the second edition, which is really the last one that Ben was the hundred percent — along with Dave Dodd helping him in various ways — was responsible for writing.

So, I think that the book has gotten away, to quite an extent, from both Graham’s thinking and from his way of expressing himself. So I really — but I have no quarrel with anybody that wants to read later editions at all.

I do think, probably, the second edition, if you’re a real student of security analysis and you read and understand that, you’ll — you should do all right.

In terms of — a lot of the mistakes that were made, in terms of junk bonds and accounting and all of that sort of thing, were covered in 1934 in that first edition, and subsequently in 1940 in the second edition. There’s a lot of meat in there.

Later on, you know — I must admit, I didn’t read the last edition as carefully as the earlier ones. But it struck me, it was — it — what was said was not as important and it wasn’t said as well. And it was more expensive. (Laughter)

Charlie, you have any thoughts on that?

CHARLIE MUNGER: No.

30. Why Berkshire doesn’t sell businesses
WARREN BUFFETT: Zone 4?

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Yes, Jeff Peskin (PH) from New York City.

And I was — I have a question on the annual report where you say that, obviously, going forward, due to the size of Berkshire, the returns going forward probably won’t match the returns of the past.

And then you go on to state that one thing that may hinder that is the fact that you don’t really like to sell companies that you own.

And I would just like to know what the reasoning is in that, if you’ve got a company or investment that you don’t think is going to do as well as where you can put the money going forward. What really the reasoning is for holding on and not redeploying the money elsewhere?

WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. I’ll just correct you just slightly. A, I didn’t say we’d probably do worse than the past. I said we will do worse than the past. I mean, there’s no way we can match percentage numbers of the past.

That, you know, we would — in a period that would not take that long, we would — assuming we paid out nothing — we would gobble up the whole GDP, which is something we may think about, occasionally, but — (laughter) — we don’t really expect to accomplish. The —

But — and the second point, that relates to size. That does not relate to our unwillingness to sell businesses, because that unwillingness has existed for decades. But the size has not existed for decades.

The size is — you know, doubling 12 billion or so is harder than doubling 1 billion-2, which was harder than doubling 120 million. I mean, there’s no question about that.

So, eventually — well, already it will be a drag on performance. It doesn’t mean that the performance will be terrible, but it does mean that 23 percent is an historical figure. It has no predictive value.

The unwillingness to sell businesses, like I say, goes back a long way. That is not what — that —

If that hurts performance, it’s peanuts. That’s simply a fact — a function of the attitude Charlie and I have, is that if we want to live our lives, we find it a rarity when we find people in the business that we want to associate with. When we do find that, we enjoy it.

We don’t see any reason to make an extra half a percent a year or 1 percent a year — don’t try us on higher numbers. But the — (laughter) — we don’t see a reason to go around ending friendships we have with people, or contact, or relationships. It just doesn’t make any sense to us. It —

We don’t want to get committed to that sort of activity. We know we wouldn’t do it if we were a private company.

Now, in Berkshire, we feel we’ve enunciated that position. We want to get that across to everybody who might join with us because we don’t want them to expect us to do it.

We want them to expect us to work hard to get a decent result, and to make sure that the shareholders get the same result we get, and all of that sort of thing.

But we don’t want to enter into any implicit contract with our fellow shareholders that will cause us to have to behave in a way that we really don’t want to behave.

If that’s the price of making more money, it’s a price we don’t want to pay.

There’s other things we forgo also, but that is the one that people might disagree with us on. So, we want to be very sure that everybody understands that, going in. That’s part of what you buy here.

And it may — I don’t think it’ll hurt performance that much anyway. But to the extent that it does, it’s a limitation you get with us.

Charlie? (Applause)

CHARLIE MUNGER: I don’t think there’s any way to measure it, exactly. But my guess is that, if you could appraise something you might call the character of the people that are running the operating businesses in Berkshire, many of whom helped create the businesses in the first place, and are leading citizens in their community, like the Helzbergs —

I don’t think there’s any other corporation in America that has done as well as we have, if you measure the human quality of the people who are in it.

Now, you can say we’ve collected high-grade people because we sure as hell couldn’t create them. But one way or another, this is a remarkable system. And why would we tinker with it?

WARREN BUFFETT: If you want to — (applause) — attract high-grade people, you probably ought to try and behave pretty well yourself.

I mean it’s just — besides, it wouldn’t be any fun doing the other. I mean, it — I was in that position, a little bit, when I ran the partnership back in the ’60s.

And I really — you know, people were coming into partnership with me. And my job was to turn out the best return that we could. And I found that if I got into a business, that presented certain alternatives that I didn’t like. So, Berkshire’s much more satisfactory in that respect.

31. Focus on Graham’s three principles
WARREN BUFFETT: Zone 5?

AUDIENCE MEMBER: John Rankin (PH), Fort Collins, Colorado. Thanks for having us.

In the book, “Warren Buffett Way,” the author describes the capital growth model that you’ve used to evaluate intrinsic value in common stock purchases.

My question is, do you also still use the formula Ben Graham described in “The Intelligent Investor,” that uses evaluating anticipated growth, but also book value?

It seems to me that fair value is always a bit higher when using Mr. Graham’s formula than the stream of cash discounted back to present value that is in “Warren Buffett Way” and also that you’ve alluded to in annual reports.

WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah, we’ve tried to put in the annual report pretty much how we approach securities. And book value is not a consideration — virtually, not a consideration at all.

And the best businesses, by definition, are going to be businesses that earn very high returns on capital employed over time. So, by nature, if we want to own good businesses, we’re going to own things that have relatively little capital employed compared to our purchase price.

That would not have been Ben Graham’s approach. But Ben Graham was — Ben was not working with very large sums of money. And he would not have argued with this approach, he just would’ve said his was easier. And it is easier, perhaps, when you’re working with small amounts of money.

My friend Walter Schloss has hewed much more toward the kind of securities that Ben would’ve selected. But he’s worked with smaller amounts of money. He has an absolutely sensational record. And it’s not surprising to me at all. I mean, when Walter left Graham-Newman, I would’ve expected him to do well.

But I don’t look at the primary message, from our standpoint, of Graham, really, as being in that — in anything to do with formulas. In other words, there’s three important aspects to it.

You know, one is your attitude toward the stock market. That’s covered in chapter eight of “The Intelligent Investor.” I mean, if you’ve got that attitude toward the market, you start ahead of 99 percent of all people who are operating in the market. So, you have an enormous advantage.

Second principle is the margin of safety, which again, gives you an enormous edge, and actually has applicability far beyond just the investment world.

And then the third is just looking at stocks as businesses, which gives you an entirely different view than most people that are in the market.

And with those three sort of philosophical benchmarks, the exact — the evaluation technique you use is not really that important. Because you’re not going to go way off the track, whether you use Walter’s approach — Walter Schloss’s — or mine, or whatever.

Phil Carret has a slightly different approach. But it’s got those three cornerstones to it, I will guarantee. And believe me, he’s done very well.

Charlie?

32. Don’t believe projections
CHARLIE MUNGER: Yeah. To the extent that the method of estimating future cash flow requires projections, I would say that projections, while they’re logically required by the circumstances, on average, do more harm than good in America.

Most of them are put together by people who have an interest in a particular outcome. And the subconscious bias that goes into the process, and its apparent precision, make it — makes it some — well, it’s fatuous, or dishonorable, or foolish, or what have you.

Mark Twain used to say a mine is a hole in the ground owned by a liar. And a projection prepared in America by anybody with a commission, or an executive trying to justify a particular course of action, will frequently be a lie.

It’s not a deliberate lie, in most cases. The man has gotten to believe it himself. And that’s the worst kind.

So, I don’t think we should — projections are to be handled with great care, particular when somebody has an interest in misleading you.

WARREN BUFFETT: Charlie and I, I think it’s fair to say, we’ve never looked at a projection in connection with either a security we’ve bought or a business we’ve bought. We’ve had them offered to us in great quantities.

Now, the fact that we voluntarily turn them away when people try to thrust them upon us — I mean, it — the very fact that they are prepared so meticulously by the people who are selling the businesses, or by the executives who are presenting to their boards and all of that sort of thing, you know, I mean, either we’re wrong or they’re wrong.

It’s a ritual that managers go through to justify doing what they wanted to do in the first place, in about nine cases out of ten.

I have never, you know, I have never met an executive who wanted to buy something that said, “Well, I had to turn it down because the projections didn’t work.” I mean, it’s just — it’s never happened.

And there will always be somebody that will come up with the projections that will satisfy the guy who’s signing his paycheck or will sign the deal that provides the commissions.

And they will pass those along to whomever else they need, the bankers or the board, to approve it.

It is total nonsense. I was recently involved in some — in a situation where projections were a part of the presentation. And I asked that the record of the people who made the projections, their past projections also be presented at the same time. (Laughter)

It was a very rude act. (Laughter)

CHARLIE MUNGER: It was regarded as apostasy.

WARREN BUFFETT: It — but believe me, it proved the point. I mean, it was a joke, I mean. So, we’ll leave it at that.

33. First question when looking at an investment
WARREN BUFFETT: We’re going to have another — one more question, maybe. And then we’ll take a break.

And Charlie and I will be eating up here. The ones who want to stick around can stick around. And the ones who are in the other room, undoubtedly there will be seats in here to fill.

So, we’ll sort of regroup in 10 or 15 minutes. And then we’ll go on as long as that group lasts.

So, let’s take one more from zone 6. And then we’ll take a break.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Hello, my name is Peter Bevelin from Sweden.

What is the absolutely first question you ask yourself when you look at a potential investment? And do you and Mr. Munger ask yourself the same first question?

WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. Well, I think — I don’t ask myself whether Charlie’s going to like it because — (laughter) — that will be a tough one.

No, the first question is, can I understand it? And unless it’s going to be in a business that I think I can understand, there’s no sense looking at it.

There’s no sense kidding myself into thinking that I’m going to understand some software company, or some biotech company, or something of the sort. What the hell am I going to know about it? I mean, you know, I can — so that’s the first threshold question.

SYNC VIDEO TO PARAGRAPH
And then the second question is, you know, does it look like it has good economics? Has it earned high returns on capital? You know, does it strike me as something that’s likely to do that? And then I sort of go from there.

How about you, Charlie?

CHARLIE MUNGER: Yeah. We tend to judge by the past record. By and large, if the thing has a lousy past record and a bright future, we’re going to miss the opportunity. (Laughter and applause)
