WARREN BUFFETT: You have to figure out what you’re good at and who you really can offer something special to. Borsheims offers something very special to people, but in part, it comes about through being at one location.

You can see more of almost any kind of jewelry you want there than you’re going to see virtually any place in the world. And that will bring people there, or it will bring male people there.

And that gives you operating costs that are many — oh, 20 percentage points — off of what somebody else will be doing without that pulling power.

And that, in turn, enables you to offer the lower prices, which keeps the circle going. I mean, it’s very hard to replicate something like that. And trying to do it in 10 spots probably wouldn’t work well.

But it’s a question you ask yourself as you go along, obviously, when you — McDonald’s certainly did well by deciding to open a second store. I mean — (Laughter)

33. Factors boosting reported return on equity
WARREN BUFFETT: Zone 3?

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Warren, I’m Frank Martin from Elkhart, Indiana.

You have written extensively on the subject of the immutability of return on equity for American industry, as a whole, being stuck in the 12 to 13 percent range.

What forces do you see, since we’re above the mean, to cause that number to regress to the mean over time?

WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah, it’s true, it has been higher in the last few years. Although Fortune’s got some interesting figures in the current issue, on the 500, that shows decade by decade what the return has been on the Fortune 500 group — which is a shifting group, of course.

And it’s tended to stick, although I would say it was more between 12 and 13 than 11 and 12, probably, in that one.

The return, to some extent, in certain business has gotten a big kick because they finally put the health liabilities on the balance sheet, and therefore reduced equity.

So if you — anything you do that tends to pull down equity, if it doesn’t change your ability to do the same sales volume — it’s leveraged American business, in effect, by putting the health liabilities on the balance sheet.

It may be wrong. It may be that business can earn 15 percent or so. But I think competitive factors tend to, over time, keep pushing that number down, somewhat.

And 12 or 13, when you think about it, is not bad at all. I mean, it’s a level, with 7 percent interest rates, that allows stocks and equity to be worth much more when employed in equity than elsewhere in the world.

But if I had to pick a figure for the next 10 years, I would pick some figure between 12 and 13, but that doesn’t mean I’d be right on it.

Charlie?

CHARLIE MUNGER: Yeah. I think all of those published averages overstate what’s earned anyway. They’re the biggest companies, they’re the winners, they’re the ones whose stock sells at high multiples, so they can issue it to other people for high-earning assets.

And many of the low-return people are constantly being dropped out of the figures. Now, you can say that was true in the past, too. But it would be remarkable to me if, on average, American business earned 13 percent on capital after taxes.

WARREN BUFFETT: Those figures, incidentally — it isn’t a huge item, but it’s not totally insignificant. They don’t show as a cost, for example, the cost of stock options.

And the American shareholders pay that, so the American shareholder has not gotten the returns on equity shown by those numbers, although it’s not a huge factor.

But I wouldn’t be surprised if it was, you know, two or three-tenths of a percent just for that one cost that’s omitted.

If you let me omit my costs, I can show a very high return on equity. (Laughter)

34. Return on capital at Berkshire subsidiaries
WARREN BUFFETT: Zone 4?

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Jeff Peskin (PH) from New York. And I have a question for you.

It’s really more of an observation, in that you’ve written about when you look at acquiring a business, you look a lot at how they allocate capital.

And my question is, once you acquire a stake in a company, do you find that, just by the fact that you are helping doing the allocation of capital and doing the compensation, that that alone makes a company have a lot higher return?

Or is there some benefit by the fact that you own, or some major shareholder, owns a big slug of the company that also allows a company to increase its return on capital?

WARREN BUFFETT: Well, that’s a good question. The answer is sort of, some of the time, some of the places. It’s the —

There’s no question, in a business that earns a high rate on capital, that doesn’t have natural ways to employ that money within the business, that we actually may contribute significantly to the long-term results of that business by taking the capital out.

Because if they don’t have a place to use it, nevertheless, they might well use it someplace. And we have the whole universe to spread that money over.

So we can take the money that’s earned in some operating business and we can buy part of the Coca-Cola Company with it, and buy into another wonderful business, whereas very few managements probably would do that. So, there’s an advantage there.

Now on the other hand, Helzberg’s, for example, will probably grow very substantially. They’ll probably use all the capital they generate. Maybe they’ll even use more. Well, they don’t really need us for that. I mean, they would’ve done that under any circumstances.

We may actually give them the ability to grow even a little faster because if a company — and this is not the — these are not the Helzberg’s figures — but if a company is earning 20 percent on equity but can grow 25 percent a year, you know, they’re going to feel equity strains at some point. And we, obviously, would love the idea of supplying extra capital that would earn 20 percent on equity.

So, there can be some advantage to having us as a parent, in terms of sending capital to the business, as well as taking capital from the business.

We also, I think, can be helpful in some situations, in that once we are there, a lot of the rituals — particularly in a public company — but a lot of the things that people waste time doing in business, they don’t have to do with us.

I mean, there’s an awful lot of time spent in some businesses just preparing for committee meetings, and directors meetings, and all kinds of things like that, show-and-tell stuff. And none of that’s needed with us. We won’t go near them.

And so, we really free them up to spend a hundred percent of the time thinking about what is good for the business over time. If they have extra money, they don’t have to worry about what to do with it.

If they need extra money for a good business, it’ll be supplied. So, there are some advantages that way. And I guess —

Charlie, can you take it any further?

CHARLIE MUNGER: Yeah. I think our chief contribution to the businesses we acquire is what we don’t do.

(BREAK IN RECORDING)

35. “Advanced math is of no use” in investing
AUDIENCE MEMBER: — it’s hard to continue to grow at the rate you’ve grown in the past because the company has gotten so big. And I’m wondering if you could elaborate a little bit on that.

And my second question, which is totally unrelated, but I’ve also read where you’re very good with numbers, with working things in your head. And I’m totally a rookie when it comes to economics and accounting and things like that, but I’m very good with numbers and keeping things in my head.

And I’m wondering if there’s some way a mathematician who knows very little about the business world, what I could read or what I could do to learn how better to invest and how you did that.

WARREN BUFFETT: Well, going to the first question, when you say it’s going to be hard — it’s going to be impossible. I mean, now that’s the answer. We cannot compound money at 23 percent from a $12 billion base.

We don’t know how to do that, and it would be a mistake for anybody to think that we could come close to that. We still — we think we can do OK with money, but we did not start with a $12 billion base.

And we’ve never seen anybody in the world compound numbers like that, at that rate. So, we’ll forget it — that part of it, but there are intelligent things we can be doing.

The second part of the question, I don’t think any great amount of mathematical aptitude is — not aptitude, but mathematical knowledge is a — advanced math is of no use in the investment process.

And understanding a mathematical relationship, sort of an ability to quantify — a numeracy, as they call it, I think that’s generally helpful in investments because something that tells you when things make sense or don’t make sense, or sort of how an item in one area relates to something someplace else.

But that doesn’t really require any great mathematical ability. It really requires sort of a mathematical awareness and a numeracy. And I think it is a help to be able to see that.

I mean, I think Charlie and I probably, when we read about one business, we’re always thinking of it against a screen of dozens of businesses — it’s just sort of automatic, and —

But that’s just like a scout in baseball thinking about one baseball player against an alternative. I mean, you only have a given number on the squad and thinking, you know, “One guy may be a little faster, one guy can hit a little better,” all of that sort of thing. And it’s always in your mind, you are prioritizing and selecting in some manner.

My own feeling about the best way to apply that is just to read everything in sight. You know, I mean, if you’re reading a few hundred annual reports a year and you’ve read Graham, and Fisher, and a few things, you’ll soon see whether it kind of falls into place or not.

Charlie?

CHARLIE MUNGER: Yeah. I think the set of numbers — the one set of numbers in America that are the best quick guide to measuring one business against another are the Value Line numbers.

WARREN BUFFETT: I’d agree with that.

CHARLIE MUNGER: That stuff on the log scale paper going back 15 years, that is the best one-shot description of a lot of big businesses that exists in America. I can’t imagine anybody being in the investment business involving common stocks without that thing on the shelf.

WARREN BUFFETT: And, if you sort of have in your head how all of that looks in different industries and different businesses, then you’ve got a backdrop against which to measure.

I mean, if you’d never watched a baseball game and never seen a statistic on it, you wouldn’t know whether a .300 hitter was a good hitter or not.

You have to have some kind of a mosaic there that you’re thinking is implanted against, in effect. And the Value Line figures, you know, they cycle it every 13 weeks. And if you ripple through that, you’ll have a pretty good idea of what’s happened over time in American business.

CHARLIE MUNGER: By the way, I pay no attention to their timeliness ratings, or stock ratings.

WARREN BUFFETT: No, none of that means anything. It’s too bad they have to put that there, but that —it’s the statistical material, not the —

CHARLIE MUNGER: I would like to have that material going all the way back. They cut it off about, what, 15 years back?

WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah, but I save the old ones. (Laughter)

CHARLIE MUNGER: Yeah. But you know, I wish I had that in the office, but I don’t.

WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah, we — Charlie and I — maybe even, I do it more — we tend to go back. I mean, if I’m buying Coca-Cola, I’ll probably go back and read the Fortune articles from the 1930s on it or something.

I like a lot of historical background on things, just to, sort of, get it in my head as to how the business has evolved over time, and what’s been permanent and what hasn’t been permanent, and all of that. I probably do that more for fun than for actually decision making.

But I think it is — I think if you think about if — we’re trying to buy businesses we want to own forever, you know, and if you’re thinking that way you might as well see what it’s been like to own them forever, and look back a ways.

36. Management made the difference for Wells Fargo
WARREN BUFFETT: Zone 6.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: I’m Stewart Horejsi from Salina, Kansas.

When you first bought part of Wells Fargo a few years back, I looked at it and I couldn’t tell it was any better than any of the other banks. I think, now, anybody that would look at it can tell it’s better than almost any bank.

Now you’ve bought PNC Bank, and again, I can’t see how it’s distinguished from any of the other banks. (Laughter)

What did you see in PNC Bank that made you select it over all the other banks that were available?

WARREN BUFFETT: (Laughs) Well, we’re not going to give any stock advice on that. So, I think that going back to Wells, it was very clear that, if you —

I knew something about Carl Reichardt, and to a lesser extent at that time, Paul Hazen, from having met them and also from having read a lot of things they said.

So, they were different — they were certainly different than the typical banker. And then the question was, is how much did that difference make, in terms of how they would run the place?

And they ran into some very heavy seas, subsequently. And I think, probably, the difference — I probably think those human differences that were perceived earlier are what enabled them to come through as well as they did. But that’s about all I can say on banks.

CHARLIE MUNGER: You know, you might add to that slightly, because that Wells Fargo thing is a very interesting example. They had a huge concentration of real estate lending, a field in which people took the biggest —

It was the biggest collapse in 40 or 50 years in that field, so that if they had been destined to suffer the same sort of average loss per real estate loan that an ordinary bank would’ve suffered, the place would’ve been broke.

So, we were basically betting that their real estate lending was way better than average. And indeed, it was. And they also handled it on the way down, way better than average.

So, you can argue that everybody else was looking at this horrible concentration of real estate loans and this sea of troubles in the real estate field, and in bankers to the real estate field. And they just assumed that Wells Fargo was going to go broke.

And we figured, no, that since their loans were way higher quality, and their loan collection methods were way higher quality than others, that it would be all right. And so, it worked out.

WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah, we couldn’t have told that — if we hadn’t gone a little further, though, than just looking at numbers, we would not have been able to make that decision.

37. Nothing “magic” about a positive shareholders’ equity
WARREN BUFFETT: Zone 1.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: David Carr, Durham, North Carolina.

Tambrands and U.S. Tobacco are two companies which are primarily single-focus product companies, that seem to possibly have some barriers to growth in unit sales and pricing, and have employed a strategy of returning cash to shareholders through stock repurchases.

Both companies have, at times — when they thought the stock was at a discount to intrinsic value — used debt to accentuate the repurchases.

Those companies recently have talked about problems with going into a negative shareholders — a negative stake to shareholders’ equity position — through the use of additional debt to repurchase more shares, at a time when both companies believe their stock’s very cheap. And they appear to have the type of long-term cash flow that would at least allow that.

Would you comment on the, at least, accounting treatment and the stated shareholders’ equity, and if you think that should be a real concern for management in those areas?

WARREN BUFFETT: What was the first company, besides U.S. Tobacco?

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Tambrands.

WARREN BUFFETT: Do you want to?

CHARLIE MUNGER: Tambrands?

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Yes.

WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah, I don’t think there’s anything magic about whether shareholder equity is positive or negative. The — Coca-Cola has a shareholder equity of $5 billion. It has a market value of 75 billion or so.

Now, they’re not going to do it and I’m not going to recommend it, but if they were to spend $10 billion buying in their stock they would have a negative shareholders’ equity of 5 billion. They would — their credit would be sound.

I mean, if somebody else were to buy the company for 75 billion, they’d have 5 billion of tangible assets and 70 billion of intangible assets.

And there is nothing magic about a company having a positive shareholders’ equity. And it isn’t done very often. And I can’t even think of a case where it’s been done, but it may have been.

But I see no — I see nothing wrong with a company having a negative shareholders’ equity, although it may be prohibited by the state in which they’re incorporated, in terms of repurchasing shares at a time that would produce that. You’d have to look at the state law on that.

But anytime a company in an LBO, or something, is bought out at some very large number over book value, in effect, they’re creating a negative— if they borrow enough money on it — they’re creating a negative shareholders’ equity, in terms of the previous shareholders’ equity. And it’s just a fiction, as to the numbers between the two organizations.

You should buy in your stock when you don’t have a use for the money. And that could be management specific. I mean, some managements might have a use for the money if their field of capital allocation were large enough, whereas another management that was more specialized in their own business might not.

But once a company has attended to the things that are required or advantageous for the present business, we think reacquisition of stock is a very logical thing to consider, as long as you don’t think you’re paying more than the intrinsic value of the business in doing it.

And obviously, the bigger the discount from intrinsic value, the more compelling that particular use of money is.

Charlie?

CHARLIE MUNGER: I’ve got nothing to add. Generally speaking, maybe Coca-Cola can have a negative equity, but I don’t think it would be a good idea for General Motors. I think there is something to be said for a positive shareholders’ equity.

38. Looking for winners in competitive credit card business
WARREN BUFFETT: Zone 3.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Edward Barr, Lexington, Kentucky. I had a two-fold question.

Number one, you mentioned American Express earlier. And I was curious as to whether the fact that credit card usage is only 10 percent of all transactions, and that may continue to grow for some time going forward, was a factor in your decision?

And the other part of the question pertains to the durability and permanence of the banking franchise with regard to alternative delivery channels that may appear over the next few years, including the possibility of the Microsoft/Intuit merger.

WARREN BUFFETT: Well, the specific number you mentioned about credit card usage and so on, that’s not a big factor with us. We think credit cards are both here to stay and likely to grow, to some extent.

Although at some point you start reaching limits, at least in terms of outstandings [outstanding credit card debt] that people are — that make any sense.

But the credit card field is a very big field. The question is, is who’s got the edge in it? Because everybody is going to want to be in it, and they already are. And there are a lot of different ways you can play the game if you’re in the credit card business.

And you better have some way of playing one part of the game, preferably a large part. But you better have some way of playing one part of the game better than others or natural capitalistic forces are going to grind you down.

I mean, it’s a business that people are willing to change their minds about what they do in. I mean, if you offer somebody a credit card that gives them some advantages that don’t exist on their earlier card, people are quite willing to shift cards.

So, you need some kind of an edge in some particular segment of the market. So, the growth aspects overall of the market were not a big — are not a big factor with us.

It’s really a question of figuring out who’s going to win what game, and who’s going to lose what game.

And what was the second question again on that?

39. Expect big changes in banking over next 20 years
AUDIENCE MEMBER: The second question pertained to the permanence and durability of the banking franchise.

WARREN BUFFETT: Oh yeah, sure.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: And whether alternative delivery channels over the next few years may erode the durability of that, including the Microsoft/Intuit merger.

WARREN BUFFETT: Well, that’s a good question. You’re certainly seeing the value of bank branches diminish significantly. It used to be a point of enormous pride with managements, in how many branches they had.

And it was, you know, often political influence and everything else was called into obtaining branch permits.

The world will change in banking, probably in some very major ways, over a 20 or 30-year period. Exactly what players will benefit and which ones will be hurt, you know, is a very tough question.

But I would expect — I would not — I don’t think I’d expect really significant change in banking over the next five years, but I’d certainly expect it over the next 20 years.

And there are a lot of people that have their eye on that market, including Microsoft, as you mention.

It may be to their advantage to hook up with the present players. I mean, I know it’s certainly something that gets explored. But they may figure out a way to go around the present players, too. And that’s one investment consideration.

Charlie?

CHARLIE MUNGER: Yeah. The interesting player that went around the rest was Merrill Lynch. Merrill Lynch went heavily into banking with its cash management accounts. And I don’t think it’s the only innovation that’ll come along.

WARREN BUFFETT: What’s the name of that book?

CHARLIE MUNGER: You know, I’d forgotten, that’s a marvelous book.

WARREN BUFFETT: Yes, there’s a great book.

CHARLIE MUNGER: Maybe Molly remembers. What was that book you gave me? It was the history of the credit card.

WARREN BUFFETT: Was it Joe Nocera’s? Yeah, Joe Nocera was the author. I don’t remember the title [“A Piece of the Action: How the Middle Class Joined the Money Class”]. But it came out about six months to a year ago. It’s a terrific history of the credit card business.

And if you read that you will get some idea of the amount of change that can occur in something like, you know, the movement of money. And my guess is that if there’s another edition of it in 20 years, there’ll be plenty more to write about. So —

CHARLIE MUNGER: By the way, that is a fabulous book. Most of the people who are here will not be able to put it down. I mean, for a book about an economic development, it captures the human background in a very interesting way.

40. No comment on SunTrust and PNC moats
WARREN BUFFETT: Is it zone 4? That seems far away for zone 3. Yeah.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: I was — Adam Engel (PH) from Boulder, Colorado.

I was wondering if you could comment on the moat you see around the castles of SunTrust and PNC.

WARREN BUFFETT: Well, I don’t think I should comment on specific holdings like that. But — so I would say you would look at those in a general way very much as you’d look at banking operations first.

And then you’d try and figure out what are the specific strengths or weaknesses of both organizations. But there, again, I don’t want to spoil the fun for you.

Charlie?

CHARLIE MUNGER: Nothing to add.

41. “Wiseass” comment on Salomon that Munger wishes hadn’t occurred
WARREN BUFFETT: Zone 5.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: My name is Bob McClure (PH). I’m from the States but I live in Singapore.

About a week ago, in the Asian Wall Street Journal, a remark was attributed to Mr. Munger, specifically that owning Salomon Brothers was like owning a casino with a restaurant in the front. (Laughter)

The casino, eluding to the proprietary trading, and the restaurant, to the so-called client-driven business. If that attribution is correct or accurate can you —

Charlie Munger: Well, I don’t think —

AUDIENCE MEMBER: — elaborate on why you view the business in that way?

CHARLIE MUNGER: I don’t think it’s entirely correct, but I have a pithy way of speaking on occasion. (Laughter)

And I frequently speak in a way that works with an in-group, but wouldn’t necessarily work everywhere else.

And every once in a while, when you take one of those wiseass comments — (laughter) — out of context — why, I very much wish that it hadn’t occurred. (Laughter)

This was such a case. (Laughter and applause)

WARREN BUFFETT: It won’t stop him in the future, though. (Laughter)

Or me.

42. National debt isn’t scary now, when compared to GDP
WARREN BUFFETT: Zone 6? Or are we in 5? Which one are we in? Kelly? Or —

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Mr. Buffett, I’m Randall Bellows (PH) from Chicago.

And the two questions I have, since you’re answering questions so far afield, are, if you were to look at the balance sheet of the United States of America, is the national debt as frightening as — that it appears to be?

And secondly, in terms of redeployment of capital, if Coca-Cola is such a wonderful investment, as it returned so much, why not redeploy some capital in purchasing additional shares of Coca-Cola?

And finally, thank you for letting Jane do that portrait of you. And if it’s good, we’ll do Mr. Munger next. Thank you.

WARREN BUFFETT: First question about the U.S. balance sheet, it — the net national debt is about — it would be about 60-odd percent of GDP.

CHARLIE MUNGER: Without counting unfunded pensions.

WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah, but that’s — but also with a claim on the income, in effect, of future citizens, which was an asset, too, that you could set up the —

But that figure, I think, at the end of World War II, may have been — I know it was around at least 125 percent, may have been 150 percent or so, of GDP. So we have sustained —

Now, the interest rate on that debt was much lower. A lot of it was at 2.9 percent because that’s what savings bonds paid.

But that level of debt, which I don’t advocate in relation to GDP, turned out to be quite sustainable. And as a matter of fact, it drifted down year after year for a long time until the early ’80s, when it started rising again. And now it’s actually fallen a little bit in the last few years, the ratio of debt to GDP.

There are a lot of measurements of how much debt is too much and all of that. But, probably, I think that if I had to look at one single statistic, I would look at that ratio, just like I would look at a ratio of debt to income for an individual.

Then you’d get into the question of the stability of the income and to whom it is owed.

But I do not think that the level of debt, relative to the economy, is of anything that’s of a frightening nature. I like the idea of it trending downward a little bit over time rather than trending upward. And if it keeps trending upward, it can get awkward.

Although, it’s — I think, in Italy, I think it’s close to 150 percent now. And you start getting to 150 percent, and talk 8 percent interest rates, and you’re talking 12 percent of GDP essentially going to interest.

If you were to put a balance sheet of the country together, it’s kind of interesting, because you would have this 4 billion of net debt on the liability side, and you’d also have a lot of pension obligations, as Charlie mentions, on the liability side.

But you’ve got a lot of assets, too. You’ve got a 35 percent interest — profits interest — in all the American corporations. I mean, the government, if it has a 35 percent tax rate, really owns 35 percent of the stock of American business. They own a significant part of Berkshire Hathaway.

We write them a check every year. We don’t write you a check every year, but we write them a check. We plow your earnings back to create more value for their stock, in other words, the taxes they get.

CHARLIE MUNGER: Are you trying to cheer these people up? (Laughter)

WARREN BUFFETT: But what would you pay to have the right, today, to receive all the future corporate tax payments made by all the companies in the United States, the discounted value? You’d pay a very big number.

What would you pay to have a right to take a percentage of the income of every individual that makes more than X in the United States, and also the right to change your percentage as you went along? That’s a very big number, too. (Laughter)

So, you’ve got a very big asset there that — and you’ve got some very big liabilities, too. But the country is very solvent.

And I would not like to see debt rise at any rapid rate. I wouldn’t like to see it rise at all, but I wouldn’t like to see it, particularly, rise at a rapid rate, because that sets a lot of things in motion, if it’s rising as a percentage of GDP.

But if you tell me that 20 years from now the national debt will be $10 trillion, but that it’ll be the same percentage of GDP, does that alarm me? Not in the least. I mean, I expect it to increase and I think there’s some arguments why — even, why it may be advisable to have it increase.

But I don’t think it’s a good idea to have it take up more and more of your income, because that sets a lot of other things in motion.

So, I welcome what’s happened in the last couple of years, which is to see it decrease modestly from the trend that existed the previous 10 or 12 years.

Charlie?

CHARLIE MUNGER: Well, generally I think that you’re right, that it isn’t all bad. And to the extent that it is bad, a great nation with a capitalistic economy will stand quite a bit of abuse on the political side. It’s a damn good thing, too, because — I don’t think we should be terribly discouraged.

If there’s anything that’s really going to do the country in it’ll be what I call a “Serpico effect,” where you start rewarding what you don’t want more of, and it then just grows, and grows, and grows. But I don’t think that’s necessarily a bad fiscal result, it’s just a bad result.

WARREN BUFFETT: Berkshire owes 7 or 800 million — or whatever it is now, in debt, and we owe another 3 billion-some of float. You know, those numbers would’ve sounded very big to me 25 years ago, but — and yet we’re one of the most conservatively financed operations you’ll find.

Ten years from now we may owe more money, and it may be a smaller percentage still. I mean, you can’t talk about debt levels without relating it to the ability to pay debt. And this country is probably in better financial shape now than it was in 1947.

43. Coca-Cola as “measuring stock” to evaluate alternatives
Zone 1. What, there was a second — was there a second question that I didn’t answer on that? Or —

AUDIENCE MEMBER: (Inaudible)

WARREN BUFFETT: Oh, in terms of repurchasing shares. Right.

CHARLIE MUNGER: No, you said, “Why don’t we buy more?”

WARREN BUFFETT: Well, we think about it.

CHARLIE MUNGER: We did, not long ago —

WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah, we did. We bought more last year, and it’s not a bad measuring stick against buying other things.

But there’s — I would not rule out Berkshire buying more. I don’t have any plans to do it right now, but I wouldn’t rule that out at all because it’s — if I’m going to look at another business I will say, you know, “Why would I rather have this than more Coca-Cola?”

CHARLIE MUNGER: Well, there he is saying something that is very useful to practically any investor, when he said, “Use this as a measuring stick,” in terms of buying other things. For an ordinary individual the best thing you have easily available is your measuring stick.

If it isn’t — if the new thing isn’t better than what you already know is available, it hasn’t met your threshold, then that screens out, you know, 99 percent of what you see, and it’s an enormous thought conserver. And it is not taught in the business schools, by and large.

WARREN BUFFETT: No, and that’s why we think it’s slightly nuts when big institutions decide, because everybody else is doing it, to put 4 percent of their money in international equities or 3 percent in emerging growth countries — some damn thing like that.

I mean, the only reason to put the money in there is if they’ve measured against what they’re already doing.

And if they measure it against what they’re already doing and they think it’s a screamingly good idea to leave 97 percent in the other place and put 3 percent in, you know, I mean, it just doesn’t make any sense whatsoever.

But it’s what committees are talked to about and what keeps investment managers going to conferences and everything, so —

CHARLIE MUNGER: They’re deliberately using a technique that takes away the best mental tool they have. And you can say this is nuts, and you’re right.

And I think {German philosopher Friedrich] Nietzsche said it pretty well when he said he laughed at the man who thought he could walk better because he had a lame leg.

I mean, they literally are blinding themselves and then they’re teaching our children how to do this in our own business schools. Very interesting, don’t you think?

And all Warren says is, deciding whether to do something, just compare the best opportunity you have. If that one is better and you’re not taking it, why would you do this just because somebody tells you you need 2 percent in international equities?

44. Buy Berkshire or let your money manager loose?
WARREN BUFFETT: Zone 1?

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Hi, my name is Mark Wheeler (PH), I’m from Portland, Oregon. And I have a few eggs in your basket. My grandmother always said, “Don’t put all your eggs in one basket.”

I have a question, and I think you answered this a couple of years ago in one of your reports about Little Abner’s investment approach.

Suppose I had $100,000 and I decide to buy four or five more of your shares, and that was sort of a buy and hold thing for four or five years.

And also I have a money manager — I’ve already got one — and he does pretty well – 10, 15 percent.

But he churns the assets all the time. You know, every time I turn around all this mailbox full of paperwork. And I guess my question is, how can I arrive at which is a better deal for me?

In other words, to buy Berkshire, which I like, and obviously I’m here, so I’m interested in it, or hang onto my money manager, who just seems to be churning the hell out of the account?

WARREN BUFFETT: Well, it’s better than having a broker churning the hell out of the account. (Laughs)

He had a little less incentive if he’s getting a management fee.

But I can’t answer your question as to which decision you should make in that case.

But I would say that if — you’re right, in the sense that, if you buy Berkshire, you should only think about buying it for a very long period of time.

We have no idea what Berkshire is going to do, either intrinsically or in the market, in the next year. And you know, we care about the intrinsic part of it. We don’t care about the market aspect. We do care about building intrinsic value.

And you know, in the end, we don’t think — well, when we own Berkshire, we don’t think of all our eggs being in one basket, I mean, because we have got a lot of good businesses.

But if you’re talking about some, you know, lightning from someplace, the huge liability suit or something like that hitting one corporate entity, we’re one corporate entity. But if you think about it in terms of the business risk implicit in an entity, we have a lot of different good businesses.

In fact, we probably have as decent a collection of good businesses as any company I can think of.

But your money manager will also undoubtedly have the advantage of working with, probably, with smaller sums, too, and that gives him a bigger universe of opportunity.

We’re not set up, taxwise, perfectly, as compared to an individual working with their own capital. We’re set up, taxwise, fine for somebody that’s going to sort of own it forever. But we’re not set up, taxwise, as well for somebody that’s going to own it a year or something of the sort.

Charlie? Anything?

CHARLIE MUNGER: Nothing to add.

45. “We like people who are candid”
WARREN BUFFETT: Zone what? Oh, back there. I don’t think it’s on. OK.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: I’m Jeff Johnson (PH). I’m grateful to be here from Tulsa, Oklahoma.

I have two questions. First, I was hoping you could explain, or offer an opinion as to why investors in property-casualty insurance companies are willing to accept traditionally below-average type of returns.

Second question relates to an answer you gave me yesterday, that being that intuition or gut feeling has nothing to do in your — in making investment decisions.

I was wondering if there is anything subjective in yours and Mr. Munger’s assessment of whether or not you like someone, and how it is that you determine whether or not you like the lord of the castle?

WARREN BUFFETT: Well. I don’t know. Charlie, do you want to answer that second part?

CHARLIE MUNGER: Well, we spoke about agency costs. And there are two different kinds of agency costs. One, the guy favors himself at the expense of the shareholders, and the other is he’s — he does foolish things. Or he’s not trying to favor himself, he just is foolish by nature.

Either way, it’s very costly to you, as the shareholder. So, you have to judge those two aspects of human character, and they’re terribly important.

And on the other hand, there are some businesses so good that they’ll easily stand a lot of folly in the managerial suite. And I — much as we like perfect people, I don’t think we’ve always invested with them.

WARREN BUFFETT: No. But generally, we like people who are candid. We can usually tell when somebody’s dancing around something, or where their — when the reports are essentially a little dishonest, or biased, or something. And it’s just a lot easier to operate with people that are candid.

And we like people who are smart, you know. I don’t mean geniuses. But that — and we like people who are focused on the business.

It’s not real complicated, but we generally — you know, there may be a whole bunch of people in the middle that we don’t really have any feeling on one way or the other, and then we see some that we know we don’t want to be associated with, and some that we know we very much enjoy being associated with.

CHARLIE MUNGER: Averaged out, we’ve been very fortunate.

WARREN BUFFETT: Very lucky.

46. Difficult to get capital out of a sub-par business
CHARLIE MUNGER: And your other question, you said, why is it that these investors accept below-average results? Well, in the nature of things, approximately half the investors are going to get below-average results. They didn’t exactly accept it in advance. It’s just the way it turned out.

WARREN BUFFETT: And the money tends to be fairly captive, once it’s in a company. I mean, it takes a lot — if you have a business that gets subnormal returns over time, there’s a big threshold in terms of either a takeover, or a proxy fight, or something like that to unleash the capital.

So, money that’s tied up in an unprofitable business, or a sub-profitable business, is likely to stay tied up for a good period of time.

Eventually something will probably correct it. But capitalism does not operate so efficiently as to move capital around promptly when it’s misallocated.

We are in a better position to do that when Berkshire owns a company. And obviously, we’re in no position to do it — because it involves something we don’t want to do — if we own it through some other enterprise. We just sell to somebody else who takes another — who takes our chair — at the table, in effect.

47. Focus on future, not current, earnings
WARREN BUFFETT: Zone 3?

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Hi, Philip King (PH) from San Francisco.

I’ve got another question about valuation — more specifically, the relation of P/Es to interest rates.

I understand that you don’t want to lay down a rigid formula for valuation, but I also know that you don’t want people to think that a multiple of 20 times earnings is cheap, or a multiple of five times earnings is expensive.

So, Benjamin Graham, he devised a central value theory that valued the average stock at an earnings yield that’s about a third above bond yields.

In other words, that would work out to maybe 11 times earnings, currently. And I know that you’ve compared the average business to a 13 percent bond that’s worth roughly book at 13 percent interest rates, and worth perhaps roughly twice book at 6 percent interest rates.

So, given current interest rates of 7 to 8 percent, as they are now, that would tend to imply that stocks are worth perhaps 12 to 13 times earnings.

And yet, the acquisitions that I’ve seen in the private market have gone out at more like 17 to 20 times earnings. And I’d like to know, what do you think is the rough range of multiples that make sense?

WARREN BUFFETT: Yeah. Well, it isn’t a multiple of today’s earnings that is primarily determinate of things. We bought our Coca-Cola, for example, in 1988 and ’89, on this stock, at a price of $11 a share. Which — as low as 9, as high as 13, but it averaged about $11.

And it’ll earn, we’ll say, most estimates are between 230 and 240 this year. So, that’s under five times this year’s earnings, but it was a pretty good size multiple back when we bought it.

It’s the future that counts. It’s like what I wrote there, what Wayne Gretzky says, to go where the puck is going to be, not where it is.

So, the current multiple interacts with the reinvestment of capital and the rate at which that capital’s invested, to determine the attractiveness of something now.

And we are affected in that valuation process to a considerable degree by interest rates, but not by whether they’re 7.3, or 7.0, or 7.5. But I mean, we’ll be thinking much differently if they’re — long-term rates are 11 percent or 5 percent. And — but we don’t have any magic multiples in mind.

We’re thinking — we want to be in the business that 10 years from now is earning a whole lot more money than it is now, and that we will still feel good about the prospects of the business at that time.

That’s the kind of business we’re trying to buy all of, and that’s the kind of business that we try and buy part of. And then sometimes we buy others, too. (Laughs)

Charlie?

CHARLIE MUNGER: We don’t do any of that rigid formulaic stuff.

WARREN BUFFETT: There’s a general framework, that you can call a formula, in our mind. But we also don’t kid ourselves that we know so much about the specifics that we would actually make a calculation, in terms of the equation.

When we bought Coke in ’88 and ’89 we had this idea about what we thought the business would do over time, but we never reduced it to making a calculation.

Maybe we should, but I mean, it just — we don’t think there’s that kind of precision to it.

We think it’s the right way to think in a general way. And we think, if you try to — if you think that you can do it to pinpoint it, you’re kidding yourself.

And therefore, we think that when we make a decision, there ought to be such a margin of safety that it ought to be so attractive that you don’t have to carry it out to three decimal places.

We’ll take a couple more and then we’ll have to leave. We’ve got a directors — we have one directors meeting a year and we don’t want to disappoint them.

48. USAir was mistake, despite five years of dividends
WARREN BUFFETT: Zone 4? (Laughs)

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Yes, I’m Roy Christian from Aptos, California.

I wanted to ask one question about USAir, which has not been questioned much at this meeting.

When you were on television talking about the losses there, it was funny how so many of my friends or, maybe, acquaintances came forward to tell me this piece of startling news. And, you know, I tried to stand up for you, a little bit. And at least —

WARREN BUFFETT: It was a mistake. (Laughter)

You should’ve just taken a dive. (Laughter)

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Well, at least I wanted to point out to them —

WARREN BUFFETT: No —

AUDIENCE MEMBER: — that you did have dividends over a period of —

WARREN BUFFETT: Right.

AUDIENCE MEMBER — about five or six years, and that that money was reinvested, maybe at a better return than USAir.

So, that it wasn’t quite the disaster that was pictured on television when you spoke about it, or the impression that all my friends — or I should call them acquaintances — pointed out to me.

Just a comment, I guess, is what I’m asking for.

WARREN BUFFETT: Yes. Well, you’re right, it could’ve been worse. But it was a mistake. But we received five years, I guess — yeah, it’d be five years of dividends at a good rate while we got it.

But it’s like somebody says, “It isn’t the return on principal that you care about, it’s the return of principal.” And we —

But we’re better off — we’re a lot better off, obviously, than if we’d bought the common [stock], and we’re even better off than if we bought some other stocks.

But it was still a big mistake on my part. But keep standing up for me. I need all the help I can get on this one. (Laughter)

49. Charlie’s and Warren’s book recommendations
WARREN BUFFETT: Zone 5?

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Hi, I’m Chris Stabru (PH) from New York.

Charlie, in addition to the book that you mentioned on credit cards, are there any other books you have been reading that you’d recommend to us?

And Warren, are there any books that you have been reading that you’d recommend? I know you’re a fan of Bertrand Russell. Any favorite one or two of his books?

WARREN BUFFETT: Been a long time since I’ve read those, though. I mean, I read a lot of Russell, but I did that a — he hasn’t written much in the last 10 or 15 years. (Laughs)

Charlie?

CHARLIE MUNGER: There’s a textbook which is called, I think, “Judgment in Managerial Decision Making.” And it’s used in some of the business schools, and it’s actually quite a good book.

It’s not spritely — it’s not written in a spritely way that makes it fun to read, but there’s a lot of wisdom in it. It’s something like Braberman [Max Bazerman]. But it’s “Judgment in Managerial Decision Making.”

WARREN BUFFETT: Since taking up computer bridge, which is 10 hours a week, it’s really screwed up my reading. (Laughter)

It’s a lot of fun, though.

50. Despite “awkward to disadvantageous” per share price, Berkshire won’t split stock
WARREN BUFFETT: Zone 6? We’ll take a couple more and then we’ll —

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Yes. I am Dick Leighton from Rockford, Illinois.

This is the first annual meeting that I’ve attended and it’s been very beneficial to me. I’ve been extremely impressed with the number of people here, but even more so with the number of young people who have come.

And I would like very much to be able to bring my grandchildren as shareholders, but I find it difficult to get shares into their hands with the current per unit value.

WARREN BUFFETT: That’s the nicest introduction to the stock split question we’ve had. (Laughter)

It really is, too.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: I thought you would appreciate that. (Laughter)

Obviously you understand the question. I understand the position you’ve taken over the years and the fact that it adds no value to make the split.

In this case, however, it could be a tax savings to many of us who would like to get stock shares into the hands of other family members.

Should I just go to work on my congressman to change the tax code, or would you consider a change? (Laughter)

WARREN BUFFETT: Well, that’s a very valid question. And there’s certainly a couple of areas, one of which you’ve just mentioned.

And I had someone else mention to me that they had their Berkshire in an IRA account. And now they were getting into the mandatory payment arrangement, and it didn’t work well, in terms of using the Berkshire — although I think they could sell it and then pay out a percentage of it.

There are certain aspects, primarily of gifting, where it is anywhere from awkward to disadvantageous to have the price per share on a stock that exists with Berkshire.

And you know, we’re aware of it, we’ve thought about it, and we’ve got our own personal situations even, sometimes, that are involved in that. I’ve got one in the family, which we’ve worked — figured out ways around.

The disadvantage, of course, is that you saw a little even earlier this year of what a book [“The Warren Buffett Way”] can do.

We want to attract shareholders who are as investment-oriented as we can possibly obtain, with as long-term horizons.

And to some extent, the publicity about me is negative, in that respect. Because I know that if we had something that it was a lot easier for anybody with $500 to buy, that we would get an awful lot of people buying it who didn’t have the faintest idea what they were doing, but heard the name bandied around in some way.

And secondly, to the extent that ever created a market that was even — that was stronger — you then would have people buying it simply because it was going up. We got a little bit of that going on this year.

There are a lot of people that are attracted to stocks that are going upward. It doesn’t attract us, but it attracts the rest of the world to some degree.

So we are almost certain that we would get — we don’t know the degree to which it would happen — we are almost certain we would get a shareholder base that would not have the level of sophistication and the synchronization of objectives with us that we have now. That is almost a cinch.

And what we really don’t need in Berkshire stock is more demand. I mean, that is not — we don’t care to have it sell higher, except as intrinsic value grows.

Ideally, we would have the stock price exactly parallel to change in intrinsic value over time because then everybody would be treated fairly among our shareholders.

They would all gain or lose, as the company gained or lost, over their ownership period. And anything that artificially stimulated the price in one period simply means that some other period’s shareholders are going to be disappointed.

I mean, we don’t want the stock to sell at twice intrinsic value, or 50 percent above intrinsic value. We want the intrinsic value to grow a lot.

And I don’t think there’s any question, but that we would get a worse result in that aspect if we introduce splits in, because then people would think about other possibilities that might give the stock a temporary boost.

We — they had a tabulation in Businessweek a couple of months ago on turnover on the exchange. We were at 3 percent, and I don’t think anybody was, that I saw on the list, was under double digits and bigger numbers.

But those are people who are simply, you know, their shareholders leaving frequently, and new shareholders coming in with shorter-term anticipations. We have wanted this to be as much like a private partnership as we can have, with everybody having the ability to buy it.

We don’t think the minimum investment is too high to — in this investment world. I mean, there are all kinds of investment opportunities that are limited to 25,000 or 50,000, and that sort of thing.

But the problem of making change, you know, in terms of gifts or — you know, that I wish I had a better answer for, because I think that is a —

CHARLIE MUNGER: My grandchildren pay me the difference between $20,000 and the current price. And I think that’s a very reasonable way for them to behave, particularly when they are, sometimes, they’re only six weeks old. (Laughter)

WARREN BUFFETT: You need a spouse’s consent to make it — to work with 20, obviously.

But most of the things can be solved, but I’ll admit it isn’t as easy to solve as if we just had a stock denominated in lower dollars per share.

I do think that once you get a shareholder base that is — has got — that has different objectives or expectations or anything, you can’t get rid of it. I mean, you can keep a shareholder base like Berkshire, but you can’t reconstruct it if you destroy it in some way.

And it’s important to us who we’re in with. I mean, it enables us to — I think it helps us in our operation. I think it even may — in some cases, it may even help us in acquisitions, in terms of who we attract.

It may — for all I know, it may hurt us someplace, too, that I don’t know about. But I don’t think so, because I think we can design — particularly with a preferred stock — we can design something to satisfy somebody who might have in mind a different denomination of security.

SYNC VIDEO TO PARAGRAPH
CHARLIE MUNGER: Look around you. Are we really likely to do a lot better? This is a good bunch.
